s the effect ceased?”

“Because they’re enchantments. You can’t have too many on your person at once. All of ‘em in the same place isn’t so bad; they’re not active. You could toss twice as many artifacts in a bag of holding without a worry. But on you? They’ll explode, or the enchantments will combine or break or do something nasty.”

Stan and Alais came over with a few of their teammates. The old man was wiping at his balding head as he stared at Ksmvr.

“I’m surprised you had that many on you before without the dissonance kicking in. Most adventurers have a limit of four items, max, including a bag of holding. Did Ceria or Yvlon not teach you the basics?”

The tone in his voice was accusatory. Ksmvr instantly took offense. He straightened and spoke slowly.

“I was made aware of the issue. But it has never come up until now. I am given to understand these artifacts are high-quality. It seems Comrade Pisces’ ring and bag of holding exceeded my threshold.”

“Must be. Damned thing. Glad nothing happened. I’ve only seen the dissonance get that bad once; and then the fellow’s gear all imploded. Took parts of him with it.”

Crossbow Stan shuddered, and some of the adventurers blanched. Ksmvr bent.

“I see. Then may I assume I can reequip my gear and stow the rest?”

“That’s right. Just put what you don’t need in that bag of holding and put the rest on one by one until you feel a quiver. Slowly…”

Ksmvr obeyed. He put on his gear, piece by piece, until he saw the telltale vibration start. Then he immediately pulled off the offending item and rearranged his equipment. It seemed that he had indeed reached the limit of items he could equip. But—it wasn’t as bad as he had feared. Ksmvr ended up only putting two items in the bag of holding.

“I suppose the necklace is least useful. Followed by…the Ring of Waterbreathing. However, it may be very important. I will reequip it at the slightest sign of rain. Happily, it appears I can wear my rings, cloak, sword, bow, dagger…and bag of holding together without issue.”

The adventurers watched as Ksmvr re-equipped himself. Alais was blinking hard, and one of her teammates was staring.

“That’s a lot of magical equipment!”

“Is it?”

Ksmvr looked up. He noted that the other Silver-rank adventurers all possessed one or two magical items each. A wand and some enchanted robes, or an amulet or a mildly enchanted sword. You could tell, sometimes, by the way the light shone on the metal. Or sometimes [Enchanters] added superfluous effects like a sparkling blade. Usually that meant they were low-grade. Crossbow Stan stared at Ksmvr as he put the ring away.

“A Ring of Waterbreathing? Well, ain’t that a useful little tool? Not that I’d take a contract fighting monsters in the water. Still—how many items does your team have, er, Ksmvr, isn’t it?”

“I’m afraid that information is classified, Captain Crossbow Stan. I would not like to reveal my team’s secrets without Captain Ceria’s permission. If you were her friend, I think that information would not be so confidential.”

“Captain Crossbow Stan?”

One of the adventurers laughed, and Stan flushed a bit, but he did smile, which indicated to Ksmvr his words were humorous or, at least, well-received. The adventurers stopped in the street, and Ksmvr noted they were giving him moderately friendly looks. Cautious, but not nearly as hostile as the looks they had directed at the rest of his team. Perhaps Antinium were more welcome than [Necromancers] and perceived team-killers? Interesting.

“We’re—sort of friends. Your Captain and I. Ceria and Yvlon—I did know them back in the day. So you can tell me what you’ve got, surely?”

Captain Stan’s tone was what Ceria would have described as ‘wheedling’. And his smile was too fake, much like the ones Comrade Pisces sometimes wore. Ksmvr instantly reevaluated his assessment of the adventurers; they were probing for information. So the Antinium reacted appropriately.

“Your fight in the guild would indicate you are not friends with my teammates, Captain Crossbow. You attempted to shoot my teammate in the stomach.”

“Hah. Well, that was—had to stop him animating undead, right? I didn’t know it wasn’t going to savage the others.”

“And the lightning?”

Ksmvr looked at Alais. The [Aeromancer] appeared uncomfortable.

“It was a fight. Besides, Yvlon had that enchanted armor on.”

“Damn. She didn’t use to have that. And her levels! She put down at least a dozen people by herself. Caddin’s going to need healing for at least a few days. Too soon for the job.”

One of Alais’ teammates complained sourly. He didn’t quite glare at Ksmvr. Alais glared, and one of the other teammates nudged the complainer. Stan gave them a meaningful look and a nod of the head. Another unspoken message. We need to talk to the Antinium and acquire information due to its naiveté, so cease making inappropriate comments! That was Ksmvr’s read of the body language. He continued playing the part.

“I do not understand. If you are their friends, why the reason for the hostility and the fight? Your accusations are without merit, as far as I understand them. If you had confirmed this, you would understand the truth.”

He looked pointedly at Stan. The man rubbed at his head as the other adventurers muttered invectives and curses on Ksmvr’s teammates. Crossbow Stan sighed tiredly.

“Look, Ksmvr. I’m sure you’re a fine…fellow. But those two are—you heard what Caddin said. Well, even if Ceria told us all the truth, it’s hard. Seeing them get out of Liscor like that? And then getting rich in Albez? No one’s pulled out a haul out of there, like we said, for years. It’s just suspicious. And even if it’s not…look, we made our mistakes.”

He jerked his thumb over his shoulder at the guild.

“Why don’t we bury the hatchet? You can at least tell us about Albez, tell us the story. Over a few drinks? And maybe tell us what you got? Those rings and that gear, right?”

As if she’d been waiting, Alais broke in with a smile that Ksmvr read as fake.

“Actually, the guild’s a mess. Why don’t we get a drink? I know a good inn. It’s on us as an apology.”

They were unable to read the Antinium’s mandibles to get his mood. That uncertainty—and the disdain in some of their eyes—was an open book to Ksmvr. He thought quickly.

This scenario will either lead to me revealing some information as a tactical exchange of intelligence, or a situation where I am killed and my equipment looted. It is a fitting use of time in the former case and the latter’s possibility is remote. However—

Ksmvr looked at the adventurer standing behind Alais who’d been complaining, a man with freckles and dusty hair.

“I would like to partake in this conversation. But did I not hear correctly? You have a request, do you not?”

The adventurers blinked. Alais half-turned and then nodded, off-guard. She was already behaving in a friendly manner to Ksmvr. His polite tone and demeanor were no doubt helping this effect, and her own natural desire for his goodwill aided the effect.

“What? Oh, yeah. But it’s a job for tomorrow. We need to get some other teams, but we can spare some time tonight…we’re just going to send a [Message] spell to some teams we know about that bandit job—”

“Alais—”

Stan broke in, but it was too late. Ksmvr’s antennae waved quickly.

“The request involving the bandits? But my team has taken that job.”

Wasn’t it a courtesy between adventurers? Then again…Alais winced.

“Yeah, well, things have changed. The [Receptionist] just got an update on the bounty. Look, you know Adventurer’s Guilds share bounties, right? Big ones, at least. They communicate, and with the Merchant and Runner’s Guilds, passing on valuable intelligence. The [Bandits] are one of the things they notified the local cities about.”

Ksmvr nodded.

“Of course.”

“Yeah, well, this [Bandit] group isn’t famous, but they’re still a threat. Enough to wipe out a caravan, even a well-protected one. Sure, they might lose half their number, but the other half will come away rich. And that’s what they wanted. They’ve cut off the trade going through the pass towards Esthelm and Liscor; a few [Merchants] heard about it and upped the bounty by eighty gold coins.”

She paused for what Ksmvr assumed was dramatic effect. He said nothing; reactions were superfluous effort. After a moment, Alais awkwardly went on.

“So it’s a hundred gold bounty on that group of [Bandits]. Poor bastards don’t stand a chance with that kind of reward on them. And we’re going to be the group that takes them out.”

Stan was nodding. He looked apologetic as he glanced at Ksmvr.

“You can tell Ceria and Yvlon it’s our contract, now. We’re getting some teams together, and we’ll take it. They can do another request when they get out of jail.”

The group of adventurers held their breath as they waited for Ksmvr’s reaction. The Antinium didn’t need to think. He nodded and opened his mandibles happily, raising them.

“Of course. I will relay the message. Good luck with your hunting. And if I do not take up your time, I would join you for a night of drinking and optional debauchery. Perhaps at The Wandering Inn? I will be staying there tonight.”

Both teams looked relieved. Alais smiled.

“Sure. We could meet at sundown? I’ve been meaning to visit that famous inn.”

“So have I. It’s free to use that door, right?”

Ksmvr nodded.

“It is in Stitchworks, a shop run by an [Alchemist]. The door is not always active, but if you leave it open, it is checked at a regular interval. If I am not there at that time, I may be in my room. Miss Erin will know where to find me. Oh, and do not be alarmed by the Hobgoblin or white Gnoll, both of whom I understand to be objectionable socially in some way.”

“Hobgoblin?”

Captain Crossbow Stan nodded, covering Alais’ startled reaction.

“I heard about that. We’ll see you then, then.”

“Excellent. I will bring my artifacts for further recommendation. I would not like to have more adverse effects regarding this magical dissonance.”

The adventurers brightened at that. Alais smiled. Ksmvr was turning to go, when he had a thought. He turned back and politely raised a hand.

“Excuse me.”

Stan and Alais turned back as some of their team went into the Guild, perhaps to talk to their other teammates.

“Yes, uh, Ksmvr? Anything else you need?”

“Regarding the [Bandit] group you are pursuing. May I ask where they are based, exactly? I would like to inform my team so we do not accidentally cross paths tomorrow if we take another assignment.”

Both captains hesitated, but Crossbow Stan smiled after only a moment.

“Fair request. And cautious. From where we ran into them and what we know, they’re in the Humpbacker Hills. You know, that really tall section of hills that starts appearing before the actual mountains if you head southwest? Just short of the High Passes—a good ride from Celum by horse, but not too bad. There’s a little valley there. Just stay out of the region; we’re clearing them out tomorrow, and we don’t want anyone spooking them beforehand.”

“I understand. I will inform my team. Thank you.”

“See you tonight.”

“Yes.”

Ksmvr waved; the other teams left. He saw Alais putting her head together with Stan as they went in the direction of the Mage’s Guild, which was located not far from the Adventurer’s Guild for convenience. Ksmvr wondered how many teams they considered appropriate for this job. He also wondered if the two laughing adventurers in Alais’ team were laughing at him. At the silly Antinium without a clue.

There was something people always misunderstood about Ksmvr. His team sometimes, but people who didn’t know Ksmvr especially. The Antinium stared at the backs of the adventurers and shook his head slowly.

“I am not stupid. You idiots.”

He turned and hurried down the street. Away from the Adventurer’s guild. Suddenly, Ksmvr had a lot to do. And it was all thanks to his new skills.

Not his Skills. Ksmvr was a Level 18 [Warrior], an embarrassingly low level. But he had not fought in many engagements. He had shot up in levels from his initial Level 12 status when he’d first joined the Horns of Hammerad, but Ksmvr hadn’t fought much outside a few encounters with the Raskghar. And even then, he’d only leveled once from that.

No matter. Ksmvr had not spent all that time uselessly. He had developed skills along with his Skills, and he had gained them from his companions. From observation. Questions. They were more valuable than any number of levels.

Comrade Pisces’ ability to lie. Comrade Yvlon’s skill at arms and integrity, although the integrity was hard to use properly. Comrade Ceria’s leadership. And more. Ksmvr had observed Erin and Mrsha’s duplicity and manipulation of innocence. These were valuable skills. Ksmvr had put several of them to use for the first time, and it had paid off. Now he practically ran back towards Stitchworks. He got there just in time to see the attack.

A group of men wearing cloth over their faces and hoods were standing outside of the [Alchemist]’s shop, shouting. Ksmvr slowed as he noticed they had weapons. Not swords, but rocks, bricks, an empty bottle, and a maul. Their leader had that, and he seemed to be issuing a threat. Ksmvr watched with interest as the man with the maul smashed open the boarded up front of Octavia’s shop. The other men threw their stones, bottles, and bricks through the opening. There was a crash of glass.

“Help! Someone get the Watch!”

“You started this, [Alchemist]! Don’t make Mister Quelm finish it! You know what you have to do!”

The [Thug] with the maul bellowed into the shop. Ksmvr could still hear Octavia’s voice from inside. At last, someone else took up the call. Only then did the men turn and scatter.

The Antinium knew from the [Thug]’s lazy retreat that the City Watch was incredibly unlikely to arrest them, even if a [Guard] were in the area to give chase. Not that it mattered; he opened the door to the shop, hoping the stones hadn’t broken everything.

“Excuse me—”

“Stay back! I’m warning you! I—”

Octavia stopped as she held up two bottles filled with her Pepperspray potion. She stared.

“Ksmvr? Oh, thank goodness! Help me out! Those [Thugs] just smashed a hole in my shop! Run them down! Cut off their heads or something!”

She pointed with a shaking finger at the front of her boarded up shop. It was well and truly smashed in, and Ksmvr noted the projectiles had broken a few potions on Octavia’s shelves. Nothing too important; her alchemical wares were intact. He stepped around a puddle.

“Well? What are you waiting for? They’re getting away! Or, no, I know where they’re going. It’s this ass—”

Octavia rushed past Ksmvr, trying to hurry him out of the shop. Ksmvr held up a hand.

“I am not here to assist in that regard, Miss Octavia. This appears to be a matter for the City Watch.”

“They won’t help! They think this is a fight between [Alchemists]! Which it is, I’ll grant you, but I didn’t think it would come to this! That damn Quelm bought out the muscle I approached. And he wants—look, do you want money? I’ll pay you! You’re an adventurer, right?”

The [Alchemist] was very insistent. Ksmvr stepped around her and investigated her wares. He addressed Octavia absently.

“I was instructed by Captain Ceria not to cause trouble. I feel that involving myself in this issue would be a mistake, as it is not strictly adventurer’s work. So I will not help you. I do have an order, however. Three healing potions and one stamina potion, please. Also, one smoke cloud bag.”

He had some potions, but more were always welcome. Octavia stared at him.

“But—”

“Three healing potions please. One stamina. I do not need the smoke cloud bag on second thought. I will not need it.”

“Uh, that’ll be—”

The [Alchemist] numbly accepted the coins Ksmvr handed her. Then she stared at Ksmvr. Her expression was pleading.

“I know I’m not your favorite [Alchemist]. People are making that clear today. But, look, I could really use some help right now. Ksmvr, buddy? Come on, just let me talk to Ceria. I just need some help. I just—”

She reached for Ksmvr’s arm. The Antinium walked back towards the door. One objective down. He turned perfunctorily at the opening in Octavia’s shop front.

“Captain Ceria is currently under arrest. You may talk to her tomorrow. Goodbye.”

Then he left. Octavia ran out after him.

“Wait! Ksmvr. Please?”

But he paid no attention to her. Octavia wasn’t important on Ksmvr’s internal list of affiliates, friends, and teammates. She was useful to his team, but there were many [Alchemists]. Perhaps if he had not been busy, he would have taken up her problems. But he had something to do. Something that mattered.

So Ksmvr hurried down the street, glancing up at the sun. Not even midday, which was good. He needed all the time he could. He wasn’t sure how long he had based on vague directions.

The Antinium made one last stop in the city. He found a local stable. The [Horse Handler] took one look at Ksmvr and went for his belt dagger. The Antinium had to reassure him he wasn’t a monster first, which was an amusing and unnecessary question to ask. When the man was calm, Ksmvr tried again.

“Hello. I would like to rent a horse.”

“What? Naw, naw…you’re pulling my leg. Aren’t ya?”

The man had a thick accent. He stared at Ksmvr as if the Antinium were joking. Ksmvr was not. He pointed at the sign behind the man.

“This is a stable, is it not? It rents horses? I believe the concept is simple. And you are employed here?”

It was indeed a simple concept. Ksmvr gave the man money, a full deposit on a horse, which was quite a lot, and he could ride the horse out right now. If the horse were injured, stolen, or died, Ksmvr would get less or none of his deposit back. Otherwise, he was simply renting the horse for a fee.

He could buy one if he had the funds, but that wasn’t what the Antinium was after. He didn’t have enough for one thing; he was lucky the deposits weren’t the full price of the horse. But that was because the stables operated on trust; the handlers had perfect memories, and if you mistreated or stole one of their horses, not only were you banned for life, but the men and women managing the stables across the continent would rat you out to local law enforcement wherever you went. You didn’t cross horse people.

The man running this stable blinked at Ksmvr. For some reason, this simple concept seemed to be failing him, the horse handler.

“You’re one of them bug people. Why do you need a horse?”

“Why does anyone need a horse? That is a rhetorical question, by the way.”

“What?”

The two stared at each other. Ksmvr shifted impatiently. He tried again.

“I am a Silver-rank adventurer. My qualifications are impeccable. I am fully capable of riding a horse. I need one.”

“Naw, naw…I’m not selling to a bug person. Might not get ‘em back. And it’ll break my heart if one of my lads or lasses got hurt. Can’t trust adventurers anyways. Go on. Shoo.”

He waved vaguely at Ksmvr, looking mildly afraid. The Antinium gave up. He strode past the man, into the stables.

“Hey!”

“Hmm. This horse looks reasonably able. I will pay for this one. Here is the fee.”

Ksmvr dug gold coins out of his pouch, relieved he had enough to pay for the horse’s rental fee. He resolved not to get it killed; that would be far too expensive.

“You can’t just take one! Mister Fairday doesn’t like you anyways. See?”

The horse was indeed frisky. It pranced in its stall, showing Ksmvr the whites of its eyes. It couldn’t decide if it was hostile or afraid. Ksmvr spoke in a soothing voice as he held a hand out.

“Shh. Or I will have to discipline you by riding you firmly while offering you encouragement in the form of food.”

It took him a few seconds, but a calm approach and even calmer voice worked on the horse. It stopped threatening to rear. Ksmvr turned back to the [Horse Handler]. The man seemed impressed despite himself, but he refused the coins when Ksmvr tried to pay.

“Look, no offense, but you’re still one of them bug folk. Can’t trust one of you lot on a horse. Who’s to know you don’t eat horses?”

Ksmvr stared at the man as the hostler folded his arms defiantly. The Antinium sighed. Then he spread his arms wide.

“I see. Is it war, then?”

“…What?”



——



Fifteen minutes later, Ksmvr rode out of Celum’s gates. He knew his presence was noted by the [Guards] on the gate, but he hadn’t spotted any of the adventurers on the short ride out the gates. His horse trotted a hair too quickly, and it snorted a few times. Its ears kept trying to lay flat, and it was snorting. But Ksmvr rode patiently and quickly guided the horse down the road.

Heading south. More than one traveller on the road did a double-take at the sight of Ksmvr on the horse’s back. He heard exclamations, oaths, screams, and more on the road. His horse nervously whinnied—Ksmvr made it pick up the pace. Only when he was moving faster and heading off the road, towards a certain landmark, did the horse calm and the exclamations cease.

It was better that way; the horse moved slower on the uneven terrain, but Ksmvr vigilantly watched the ground and got off to let the horse rest. Well, rest just meant Ksmvr ran alongside the horse. He was still in a hurry.

He patted the horse now and then soothingly; it wasn’t happy about him being on it, despite the [Horse Handler] doing his best to convince the animal to let the Antinium get on. But Ksmvr was a capable rider, and the horse gradually adjusted to his presence. True to his word, Ksmvr did indeed bribe the animal with food, which no doubt helped.

Was it really that much of a surprise to see Ksmvr on horseback? He may have not known how, but he had taught himself decently and it turned out Antinium could ride. The Antinium wondered to himself as he rode.

“Yes, perhaps. My team might well be surprised. But they would not be if they considered my origin. Riding is among one of my abilities.”

It was true. Ksmvr could ride, shoot, fight with almost any weapon commonly used across all five continents, lead an army with any number of strategies, perform rapid calculations, hide, assassinate, identify poisons, track, construct fortifications, identify a wide variety of spells, read, and more. He had been created and trained to be superior to his common counterparts in every way. And even if he was a failure, he had been made in the image of one of the greatest Antinium to have ever lived.

Klbkch the Slayer. Only, Ksmvr was an inferior copy. A defect. As the Antinium rode towards his destination, he thought to himself and out loud. That was what Ksmvr the Antinium did when he was alone. He thought about the future, the present, and the past. Especially the past.

“I was created in secret. To be a Prognugator of the Free Antinium should Klbkch ever fall. I was not meant to exist; my very existence was illegal.”

He knew that. The Free Queen had told him herself. To create him, she had experimented, replicated the methods of making Prognugators of old. It had been costly and done without the Grand Queen’s authority; she had not desired unique Antinium to come from the Free Antinium’s Hive.

But the Free Queen was gifted, and she remembered how it was done. There had been countless failures. But Ksmvr had been created out of the phenomenal cost to the Hive. Only, he’d been wrong.

Just how wrong? Ksmvr had narrowed down his failure. He spoke out loud as his horse bore him on.

“My faults were twofold. Firstly, in my body. In my origin.”

His body was that of a Worker’s. The Free Queen had only had two forms to choose between; she had spent time on his creation, not towards developing a new form of Antinium. Ksmvr did not understand the formulation process, but he understood it was beyond difficult; even changing a few details about the Worker and Soldier’s forms could throw off body chemistry, balance, muscle formation, and a thousand variables that would create useless rejects.

And because Ksmvr needed the use of his hands, he had become a Worker. Klbkch had been given the same form. But it was a mistake.

“The Worker form is weak. Too weak for a Prognugator. Both Revalantor Klbkch and I suffered from its ungainliness. Four arms are useful, but the agility of Klbkch’s current form with two arms far befits his style.”

Ksmvr had dueled Klbkch after the Revelator’s rebirth. That had hammered home just how ill-at-ease Klbkch must have been in a Worker’s body. Of course, Ksmvr had known his Worker’s body all his life, but only after seeing Klbkch had he understood how fluid and beautiful the Slayer’s fighting style really was. The style Ksmvr had learned from imitating Klbkch had been developed out of necessity. It was weak. However—

“That was a minor fault. Levels and experience may still compensate for biological disadvantage. It speaks to my inferiority. Revalantor Klbkch’s current form is far more agile and adept. As are the other Prognugator’s bodies. I observed Pivr’s and Tersk’s forms to both be superior in construction to my own. But body only limits my capabilities. My second fault was far worse. It lay in…me.”

Ksmvr touched his chest. He thought about his first assignment. His first responsibility in the days after Klbkch had been brought to the Hive. Slain by Goblins of all things, protecting a young girl with his body when he could have easily finished off the Goblins if he’d let her die. Ksmvr remembered, and it hurt.

“At that time I truly thought I was equal to him. I thought I could replace him just like that. That was what my Queen said. Did she lie? Or did she mistake me? Surely…she knew. She knew. Only I did not know.”

The Antinium paused. He reined in the horse and let it rest. He fed it water. Then he leaned against it. He wished he could close his eyes to the truth. But the Antinium’s eyes never closed.

“No, I knew. I just pretended I did not.”

Walking, now, Ksmvr led the horse. His destination was closer than he thought. He didn’t need to hurry; he needed to arrive at a specific time in the evening anyways. It gave him time to think. To remember.

“The days after Klbkch fell were exciting. I felt happy to be in charge. But when the undead attacked. I was—”

Trying to figure out how to protect the Hive when Liscor fell. Ordering the Soldiers to hold their ground around the Hive’s entrance, ignoring the desperate pleas from Watch Captain Zevara. Trying to ignore what he was truly feeling.

Fear. Wondering if he’d made the right choice not sending aid to Liscor, to the inn with Erin Solstice. Hiding behind the simplicity of logic. Waiting for orders. For relief. And when it had come, it had come in the simplest of forms: a fist to the face.

“I should have fought. I should have understood. But I didn’t. It was so easy when I was learning how to fulfill my job. My Queen, why did you not tell me how hard it was to make choices? To be alive?”

Ksmvr looked further south, towards a split in the towering mountains. There lay his Hive. His home. But they did not need him. They had cast him out. A reject. Ksmvr tasted as he stopped for lunch; the beautiful lunch he’d bought from a stall vendor was dust. He offered the rest to the horse after eating a satisfactory amount of nutrition.

“Failure. And again. Failure.”

First the Hive. Then he had been offered redemption at Albez. But he had failed there too. He had contributed so little. And Yvlon. Her arms were damaged, perhaps permanently as a result of her doing what Ksmvr had failed to do: destroy the fire elemental.

What was worse, what truly hurt, was that she hadn’t blamed him for it. She’d told Ksmvr eighty-four times it wasn’t his fault. That he’d done all he could. That he was a valuable part of the team. She said such…wonderful lies like that. They all did.

Resting was done. Ksmvr got up and began to walk. His horse excreted as it followed him. Ksmvr stared ahead.

“And then? Cowardice. Fear of the water. With a Ring of Water Breathing. I lost my Captain. I could not stop the Raskghar from taking her.”

Mistake and mistake again. Captain Ceria had been kidnapped, and Ksmvr could have stopped the Raskghar. But he’d been swatted away. And he had been afraid of going in the water. Afraid. If they had been faster, if he hadn’t delayed…

If, if, if. It boiled down to the same thing. What he had talked with his team about. Ksmvr was the weakest. He knew it. In level, in experience, in diversity of talents. He was a burden on his team.

But he could not be forever. Or else they would make the rational decision at last and get rid of him. Replace him with someone more capable. Like Olesm, who was far higher-level. Or Numbtongue, who had multiple powerful Skills and a superior body. Or Mrsha. She could cast magic.

Ksmvr drooped as he walked. It was true. He knew it. The only reason his team had not cast him away was because they were not rational. They were kind. How weak. How…wonderful. He could not let them down again.

“Never again. I would rather die.”

That was all Ksmvr said. He walked forwards, towards a cluster of hills. The sun set overhead, slowly falling out of the sky. And at last, as evening fell, as the sun was lowering beyond the ridge of mountains half-blocking it to the west, did Ksmvr stop. He spotted smoke, so two miles away, he tethered his horse to a tree. It whickered and lipped at his palm as he offered it some oats.

It had grown to like him, somehow. Ksmvr tied it gently, so that if a predator attacked it, the horse might yank free in desperation. He stared at the horse as it tried to bite at a leaf on the tree he’d tied it to.

“You are a simple creature. I envy you your guiltless life. Until you break a bone or grow too old and are no doubt slaughtered for food or parts. But then, so are the Antinium. We are much alike, you and I.”

He reached out.

“Pat. Pat. If I do not come back, try to stay alive for a day. The other teams may find you.”

The horse made a horse sound. Ksmvr stared at it. Then he checked his equipment. Shortsword. Dagger. Three rings. Potions. Cloak. Shortbow. Arrows. He turned and began walking towards the distant smoke trail.

Ksmvr hesitated. Then he came back and stroked the animal for a few minutes longer.

“Good horse.”

And then he left. The horse watched Ksmvr go until he was a blob in the distance. Then it resumed trying to eat leaves off the tree.



——



The [Bandits] haunting the road south to Liscor and Esthelm had no name. They weren’t nearly big enough to earn a title of notoriety. They hadn’t even existed as a group for more than two weeks, really. Of course, they had all kinds of names they called themselves. The Devils of Humpbacker Hills, the Scourge of Celum, Remendia’s Nightmares…it had to be said their names weren’t that original or impressive.

They were just [Bandits] of the ordinary kind. They’d come out of some [Thugs] from the city, a local gang of [Raiders], [Poachers], and [Thieves] mixing with some honest, simple [Bandits] who’d survived long enough to have a few tricks. The reason they’d migrated to robbing [Merchants] was because they had a [Bandit Leader] and more than a few decently-leveled members.

They were becoming more dangerous, but they’d lost as many of their group as had joined. Healing potions were scarce, people on the road often had guards, and they’d had a run in with some adventurers. They’d killed one group; the other had gotten away. But the bandit group was still relatively confident. Some were even talking about moving after a few scores around here. Hence the fancy names.

But it was notable that the [Bandits] didn’t call themselves the Bloodfeast Raiders or pretend to be other notorious [Bandit] groups like the famous Gnoll group, the Tailcutters. You didn’t cross the really bad groups. Because they were real. And they were oh so nasty if they thought someone was imitating them. Worse than any stinking group of Silver-rank adventurers…

And the [Bandits] were ready for an attack. They knew they would be attacked, so they invited it. Why not? Adventurers meant their gear was loot, they had magic, and you could ransom some of them. The [Bandits] would level from them, so they’d planted their bait. A careless bit of smoke, and they’d camped in the same spot for days now.

They’d even propped up some corpses to look like they were in the camp. Only, if anyone got close, the real sentries would alert the hidden camp, and they’d emerge from a hidden cave and cut the attackers to bits.

It would work, too. There were two good [Mages] in the group and a heavy-hitter who’d been a former Silver-rank adventurer herself. And their [Bandit Leader] was a devil of a fellow, fast with his enchanted longsword and merciless. They could wipe out the local Silver-rank teams. All they had to do was wait and feast on their spoils in the meantime. And if a passerby strayed too close? All the more fun.

The strange figure approaching the [Bandit]’s fake smoke signal mystified the [Sentries] at first. The appointed watchers stared first in confusion and then mild alarm at the approaching creature. They scrambled to alert their group. The thing was approaching the camp on purpose. And it looked like a traveller, or maybe an adventurer. But none of them had ever seen something like this.

When the [Bandit Leader] finally roused himself to look, he shouted a curse and ordered the entire group of bandits out of the cave. He ignored the questions of the others as he grabbed his weapon.

“Come on, you flesh-bag bastards! Get moving! Surround it, but no one attack! I didn’t think they left their damn Hives. We’re going to have some fun.”

He swished his tail with excitement as he raced out of the cave. Nearly thirty [Bandits] followed him. They were fewer in number than Alais and Stan had estimated, but no less deadly. The group emerged from their cover and surrounded the traveller on the road. He looked around as they formed a circle, whooping and shouting. Some of the [Bandits] recoiled at the sight of Ksmvr, but he waved happily.

“Hello! I have a question! Excuse me…”

He caught sight of their leader. The [Bandit Leader] was striding towards him, a huge grin on his face. To Ksmvr’s surprise, the person was a Drake. The Antinium stopped as the Drake halted in front of him.

“Well, well. An Antinium? What can I do for you, friend?”

He gave Ksmvr a huge, toothy smile as his tail moved slowly back and forth behind him. Ksmvr spoke brightly as he looked around at the [Bandit] group.

“One, two, three, four…hello. My name is Ksmvr. I am a friendly traveller and adventurer looking for the location of some [Bandits] camped around this location. Would you happen to know where they are?”

The Drake blinked at Ksmvr. Then he threw back his head and guffawed. The other [Bandits] laughed as well. Ksmvr looked around. He took a few steps forwards towards the [Bandit Leader].

“Excuse me. I am not sure what is funny. I asked—”

He stopped as the Drake lazily extended one hand. His enchanted sword’s tip poked into the front of Ksmvr’s chest. The Antinium stared down at it.

“That answer your question, Ant?”

The [Bandits] went silent with expectation. Ksmvr tilted his head from side to side as he eyed the blade.

“I am uncertain. Is this an indication of direction? Or intent? If you are said [Bandits], I would prefer verbal confirmation.”

The Drake chuckled.

“Of course we’re the [Bandits]. Typical Antinium.”

His head half turned, and he addressed the watching [Bandits].

“Stupid as they come. I don’t know why the city put up with—”

Ksmvr swept up the blade with one arm and lunged. The Drake reflexively tried to jump back, but the Antinium barreled into him. Ksmvr’s hands were bare as they came up. The longsword tried to cut into his side. Two of Ksmvr’s arms caught the Drake’s. The third dragged at the [Bandit Leader]’s neck spines. The Drake cursed as he tried to throw Ksmvr.

“Ancestors damn it! Get him—”

He screamed and then the noise became a terrible, gurgling rasp. The Drake stumbled back, hands clutched to his throat. A stream of red gushed between his claws. The [Bandits] stared. Slowly, the [Bandit Leader] let go. His throat was gone. He fell, making a bubbling sound. And Ksmvr straightened.

The Antinium spat something on to the ground. The [Bandits] around him recoiled. They were paralyzed; they stared at the Antinium for one gut-wrenching second. Ksmvr closed his bloody mandibles and the incisors in his true mouth closed. He looked around.

“Thank you. I was certain, but confirmation is helpful. Let’s see.”

Ksmvr spun. His shortsword appeared in his left hand. His dagger in his right. He reached into his bag of holding; the Forceshield flickered into life. The [Bandits] backed up. Too slow. Ksmvr charged right. A young woman with a sword tried to bring it up. Ksmvr lunged. His enchanted shortsword went through her worn leather armor. The thrust carried her into the ground. Ksmvr planted one foot on her chest and yanked his blade free. He looked left and slashed.

“Two.”

A [Bandit] jumped clear of the shortsword. Ksmvr raised his Forceshield. The man on his right swung with a wild scream; his club bounced off the shimmering, translucent field generated by the magical buckler. Ksmvr’s arm didn’t so much as waver. His dagger shot out, and the man ducked back.

Too late, he realized Ksmvr was aiming for that. The Antinium whirled right. His left arm came up. The [Thug] tried to block. The club intercepted the blade, but Ksmvr’s momentum carried through. The shortsword stopped, cutting into the club and the man’s head, across his eyes. Ksmvr pulled his blade back.

“Three.”

He turned. The [Bandits] stared at him, but the shock had run its course. One of them shouted.

“Get that thing! Kill it!”

The rest finally moved. Those with ranged weapons or magic ran back as the others advanced shoulder-to-shoulder. The air was filled with panicked shouts.

“He killed the boss!”

“Don’t let it get close! That shield’s magic!”

“Out of the way!”

The [Bandit] with the largest voice was a woman in full plate armor: the former Silver-rank adventurer. She had a huge spiked mace in one hand and a shield in the other. She rushed past the slower [Bandits], aiming at Ksmvr with a roar. The Antinium turned. He raised his hand. Three rings shone on his fingers.

He flicked his wrist at the woman in armor.

“[Shatterbolt].”

The ring Pisces had given Ksmvr flashed. A flicker of silver, a translucent bolt as thin as a needle, shot out. The woman couldn’t dodge. The bolt struck her plate armor, and the armor and the [Bandit]’s body cracked. Ksmvr saw the armor break where the bolt had passed through, then blood begin to drip from the opening. The woman was already dropping. Already dead.

The [Bandits] charging Ksmvr slowed, tripping over themselves. Someone shouted in horror. The others tripped over themselves to get back. Some couldn’t believe it. The woman in armor was dead. Just like that. Her armor, her levels, that little spell had gone through it all like it was nothing. It wasn’t fair.

“Twenty-six left. Heavy armor down. Three high-level opponents remaining. One [Swordsman], two [Mages].”

Ksmvr looked around. The [Bandits] were milling, afraid to approach now. But they were mobilizing. Some were racing towards their cave. Others taking their ground. Ksmvr advanced on the melee fighters who’d closed. They swung at him, swearing. He lifted his Forceshield.

“Get clear! I can’t get a good—”

One of the [Mages] was shouting, gesturing for his comrades to fall back. They tried, but Ksmvr kept advancing. He jabbed with his shortsword, but they kept back. He slashed at a [Warrior] wearing chainmail and holding a shield and sword.

This time, Ksmvr’s blade deflected off the hide shield. The man jabbed back, shouting at his buddies to get around. Ksmvr saw the [Bandits] moving and struck a blow with his third arm before retreating. He lanced out with the dagger as his left arm pretended to thrust low at the man’s shins.

The man saw the feint with the sword and shifted his shield. With a snarl of triumph, he blocked the dagger. The curved, metal tip stuck into the hide shield. Ksmvr nodded.

“Terith.”

The metal of the enchanted Flamecoat Dagger turned red. Then it ignited. The flames raced across the hide shield in the blink of an eye. It covered the shield, the arm holding it, and then the man in a moment. He was engulfed by flames. For a second he didn’t know what had happened. His laughter turned to confusion. And then pain.

The burning [Bandit] screamed and dropped his weapons. He stumbled towards his companions, hands outstretched, and then dropped to the ground and began to writhe. The other [Bandits] looked horrified. They ducked back as Ksmvr slashed at them with dagger and shortsword.

“Teri—”

Ksmvr began to utter the command again, but a blow struck him from behind. A woman hammered the back of his head with a mallet. Ksmvr stumbled, turned. He swung his dagger and shortsword, but she jumped back. This time someone struck him from the side; a spear jabbing towards his side. Ksmvr deflected the blade.

Surrounded. He looked around. The [Warriors] had all closed with him. They were lashing out, attacking together. Ksmvr blocked with his Forceshield, parrying with his shortsword at the same time. He effortlessly blocked the mallet again with the shield, but someone hit him in the back. He stumbled.

Not good. Ksmvr bent his knees and took a blow to the face. He sat down. He had to get up. He had to—a [Bandit] was snarling at him, mallet raised. And the burnt [Bandit] was on his feet. Somehow he had survived. He got up and lunged, biting. He tackled the woman with a mallet and began clawing at her. Biting at her…face…?

She was screaming. The [Bandits] surrounding Ksmvr turned their heads. They saw their friend biting, trying to eat his friend. They couldn’t understand. The burnt [Bandit] tore a chunk of flesh off the mallet-wielding woman, and she howled. She bashed at him, pushing him off her, and another [Bandit] ran through his companion with a spear. But that didn’t end the nightmare. The corpse stumbled forwards, arms grasping, mouth open impossibly wide.

A zombie. Ksmvr pushed himself up. He swung his sword, forcing a [Bandit] back. Another swung a greatsword at his stomach. He blocked with the Forceshield effortlessly. His dagger darted down, touched the greatsword as the [Raider] tried to pull it back.

“Terith.”

Flame. The man screamed and burned and fell down. Ksmvr turned. The zombie was flailing at the others, ignoring the spear in its stomach. And someone else was on his feet.

The Drake. He lurched forwards, ignoring the hole in this throat. He took another [Bandit] by surprise. As she whirled, he buried his teeth in the place where neck met collarbone and began to chew. Her screaming drowned out the other sounds for a few seconds, even when her friends tore the undead Drake off her.

Ksmvr slashed at another [Bandit], forcing them to split their attention between him and the two zombies. They stared at him. Someone shouted.

“Oh hells, it’s an Antinium [Necromancer]! Run for your lives!”

It was a young man. He turned to run. An [Ice Spike] flashed past his face. It buried itself in the head of the burnt zombie. The undead staggered and fell down, but it was rising. A [Mage] roared; his hands shimmered with ice magic.

“It’s just a zombie! Kill that Antinium!”

The two zombies clawed upwards, but the [Bandits] were faster and more agile. They hammered at the corpses. Ksmvr looked for an opening, but the [Mage] was targeting him. He saw a [Bandit] charge him with another shortsword. Something flew between them as Ksmvr braced. The [Bandit] halted, swiped at his face. Something landed on it, dodging around his hand.

A Face-Eater Moth. It was pale, wings tattered. And it was dead. But it still flew. The [Bandit] recoiled in horror, swiping at it, but it had latched onto his skin. He screamed as the undead Face-Eater Moth’s razor-sharp maw opened and tried to take off his nose. Ksmvr jumped forwards and stabbed the man through the stomach. He stared as the little Face-Eater Moth fluttered past him and the man’s corpse jerked.

“Thank you, Comrade Pisces. Don’t tax yourself unduly, please. Long-range undead summoning must be difficult.”

In fact, only three zombies rose from the fallen [Bandits]. But it was enough of a distraction. Ksmvr ran free, pausing to set fire to two more [Bandits].

“Terith. Terith. Terith.”

The third time he thrust with the Flamecoat Dagger and spoke the word, the bandit blocking did not ignite. He stumbled back, flailing in horror anyways, so Ksmvr cut him across the arm, but the man’s scale mail blocked a fatal blow. Ksmvr ran past him, winning clear of the [Warriors]. He raised his shield, and an [Ice Spike] blasted past his head. Ksmvr ran towards the steep incline of a hill ahead of him; a rocky face littered with soil and grass provided him with a wall to put his back behind. He spun.

“[Ice Spike]!”

The shard of ice splintered off Ksmvr’s Forceshield. The [Mage] snarled in disbelief. Ksmvr lowered the shield. The warriors had fallen back to let the two [Mages] and archers work. They began lobbing spells at Ksmvr. One was shooting [Ice Spikes], an inferior version of Ceria’s spell but no less deadly; the other threw orbs of acid. Ksmvr ran with his back to the hill, holding his Forceshield up as he did, and he sheathed the Flamecoat Dagger.

“Four applications in combat. Uncertain recharge time. Another deficiency I should have investigated beforehand.”

A blob of acid splashed at Ksmvr’s feet. He recoiled as the stinging liquid nearly struck his legs. Then he turned. A blur—a [Bandit] on horseback! There were five of them, riding at him from their cave, screaming. The first had a spear.

“Get him!”

The [Bandits] were screaming. Ksmvr held up his shield as more spells and arrows struck the hill behind him. He crouched to shield himself, but that meant he couldn’t run. And the [Bandits] on horseback were aiming right at him. The lead rider couched the spear like a lance. He aimed down at Ksmvr’s heart.

“[Lancing Thrust]!”

His spear shot out. Ksmvr looked up. And he jumped. The [Bandit] spear tracked up, aiming at him. At his head, his belly, his feet—

The men and women looked up. Ksmvr flew ten feet up into the air. He turned as he flew.

“Imposs—”

The [Bandit] riding down on him tried to dodge in the saddle. Ksmvr’s shortsword sheared through part of his head. The horse reared and fled as its rider dropped from the saddle. The Antinium landed. He spun, leapt again.

A horse reared. The woman with a sword in hand tried to hold on. Ksmvr leapt over the horse and struck her on the way down. She fell out of the saddle and the horse, overbalanced, fell on her. Ksmvr rolled. He raised his Forceshield, blocked a swinging long-handled club as a [Bandit] rode past him, and leapt.

“He can fly?”

The Antinium sprang up the side of the hill. Each jump took him higher and higher. Ksmvr couldn’t fly. But he could jump impossibly high. The [Bandits] on horseback circled the hill, staring up at him. Ksmvr stopped. Then he leapt down and landed on a passing rider.

The impact broke the horse’s legs. It killed the [Bandit]. Ksmvr tumbled down, but he was on his feet in an instant. The Ring of Jumping had negated the impact. For him. He looked down at the man’s broken spine and the dying horse.

“Sorry.”

Magic. Ksmvr was too slow this time. The [Ice Spike] shattered on the rim of his Forceshield, spraying him with fragments of ice. But the Antinium had an exoskeleton, not skin. He leapt back, and the [Bandits] charging him cursed.

“It’s too fast!”

“Pull back! Surround it when it jumps down! Don’t get too close!”

The [Mage] with the ice spell pointed. There were at least six [Archers] behind him. They had poor aim, most of them. But their arrows still tracked Ksmvr as he leapt back up the steep incline. The Antinium landed on a rock and perched there, nearly twenty feet up. He sheathed his shortsword.

“Now what?”

One of the men on the ground swung his sword as he stared up at the distant Antinium. He turned to a man who’d retrieved the magical longsword wielded by their former [Bandit Leader]. The [Swordsman] grunted.

“Let the [Mages] and [Archers] pick that thing off. If it comes down—charge it!”

“But what if it runs aw—”

The man stumbled. He blinked down at the arrow in his chest and fell forwards. The [Swordsman] recoiled. Then ducked. A second arrow missed him.

“Drat.”

Ksmvr took aim again. The [Mage] with the ice spells shot an [Ice Spike] at him; Ksmvr’s third arm delicately maneuvered the Forceshield into place. The spell shattered on his magical buckler. Ksmvr lowered the shield, raised his bow with his other two arms, and shot the arrow he’d drawn.

A scream. The [Ice Mage] dropped, clawing at the arrow in his thigh. Ksmvr drew another arrow. Loosed it as he calmly shielded his face with his Forceshield.

“A handy way of fighting. Three arms is beneficial.”

The [Mage] trying to yank the arrow out sprouted an arrow from his collar. This time he stopped moving. The [Bandits] milled about. The remaining [Mage] and [Swordsman] pointed.

“Get him!”

The ones on the ground hesitated. They had the numbers, still. They outnumbered Ksmvr by a lot. But the incline was steep. As a group advanced on Ksmvr, more arrows frantically shot at the Antinium. A few were on target, but none hit Ksmvr. Because of his Forceshield.

The magical buckler was only a bit bigger than Ksmvr’s hand. but the field it projected created a huge shield. And unless it overloaded, Ksmvr had an unbreakable shield. One that had no weight and transmitted no force from the impact. The [Bandits] couldn’t overload the shield. And Ksmvr had three arms. He drew an arrow and loaded his bow as he held his shield up, covering his vitals. Then, swiftly, he aimed and fired. A [Bandit] fell, rolling down the hill and screaming. And before anyone could blink, Ksmvr’s shield was back up.

There he stood. Shortbow in one hand, Forceshield in the other. The magical shield was raised as Ksmvr nocked another arrow and aimed. A flurry of arrows shot towards him, a coordinated volley, too many to block. Ksmvr turned around, showing the [Bandits] his magical cloak. The arrows glancing off the rock face around him could have been rain; they struck his cloak and failed to penetrate the magical cloth.

“Ah. That explains why I survived blows from behind. A cloak is useful.”

Ksmvr turned back around. His third arm moved his shield and blocked a ball of green acid; he calmly flicked the magical substance backwards and watched it splash down on the [Bandits] climbing up towards him. He deflected an arrow. Then with his other two hands he aimed and loosed his.

“Fall back! Get back to the cave!”

The [Swordsman] on the ground shouted at his companions. He could see what Ksmvr already knew; the [Bandits] would never pry him from his ledge. And Ksmvr could advance and retreat as much as he wanted. The Humans streamed backwards. Ksmvr loosed more arrows, but they had their shields up. He took this moment to drink a healing potion, then a stamina potion. He counted.

“Hm. That [Mage].”

Ksmvr focused on the [Mage] who had been throwing acid. She was retreating quickly. But she wasn’t as fast as the others. And they thought Ksmvr was going to stay on the hill. So he leapt.

Down from the hillside, falling. Leap; the ground blurred, and Ksmvr soared up. He fell as the [Bandits] turned. But he leapt again, covering the ground as his Ring of Jumping carried him up. Leaping forwards like a frog. Landing—

“No—”

The [Mage] tried to duck. Ksmvr lashed out with the shortsword and dagger he’d drawn. The sword glanced off her arm. The dagger buried itself in her stomach.

“Terith.”

No fire. Ksmvr twisted the dagger, and the woman screamed. He pulled the weapon free.

“Now—”

“[Flash Cut]!”

The side! Ksmvr twisted. This time he was too slow. The [Swordsman] darted forwards, magic longsword in hand. He sliced at Ksmvr’s side, and his sword blurred under Ksmvr’s guard. The Antinium staggered.

“I’ve got him! I’ve g—”

The [Swordsman] stopped. He stared. Ksmvr looked down at his side.

“Huh.”

The magical blade was lodged in Ksmvr’s side. It had cut into his carapace. But not deep. The magic blade was—stuck. The [Swordsman] tried to slice through Ksmvr. But he couldn’t. And when he tried to pull the blade out, he failed.

Ksmvr lashed out with his shortsword and dagger. The [Swordsman] made the mistake of trying to hold onto his weapon; the shortsword flashed down, and he stumbled back, screaming as his stump of a hand squirted blood. He ran as Ksmvr swung at him. Ksmvr dropped the Flamecoat Dagger and felt urgently at his side. The blood—there wasn’t much blood. How? That sword was magical. How…?

Ksmvr stared at his hand. Three rings flashed at him. Ring of Jumping. Ring of Shatterbolt. And…

“Ah. My Ring of [Barkskin]. I’d nearly forgotten about it. Thank you for reminding me.”

He straightened. An arrow struck him in the shoulder. The tip buried itself in his shoulder, but it only lodged in the outer layer of his carapace. Ksmvr looked around.

There were still nearly half of them left. The [Swordsman] was drinking down a healing potion, clutching at his hand. They retreated towards the cave.

“Hold it back. It’s got some kind of protective enchantment. We need to bash it’s brains in. Just hold the cave. It can’t jump in there…”

The [Swordsman] was sobbing. The [Bandits] retreated, watching the Antinium walk slowly towards them. It was blocking the arrows with its shield. But it hadn’t pulled out its shortbow.

“We can kill it. There’s just one. There’s just one. Get the warhammers. Get ropes! We’ll surround it.”

The [Swordsman] ordered desperately as he clutched a plain shortsword with his offhand. The others hesitated. The [Swordsman]’s face was pale, and he’d lost his good hand. He wouldn’t lead after this. But he would help them kill the Antinium who’d stolen his hand. They dropped their blades, grabbed mallets and hammers and ropes, set themselves at the entrance to the cave. It was a good strategy. It would work. It would have worked. But as they waited, tense, silent, they realized something.

The Antinium had vanished. He’d slipped out of sight while they retreated. And something else had happened. Something terrible.

It was simple. The sun had set.

And suddenly—it was dark. The [Bandits] stood together in the cave as blood dried and sweat turned to ice. They looked at each other.

Suddenly, it was very dark. The sun had disappeared behind the High Passes. And in its absence, they were suddenly blind. The [Swordsman] looked around.

“S-someone get a torch. Or a [Light] spell—”

“Yimmie’s dead. So is Freezy.”

One of the others muttered in the darkness. Someone else fumbled for a torch, cursing.

“Anyone got a fire spell? I’ve got a flint.”

There was a spark of light. A torch flared up. At the same time, a blur of motion shot towards the entrance. Someone shouted.

“Watch out!”

Something leapt over the heads of the people in the front of the cave. The [Bandits] recoiled, striking at each other, at shadows. There was a scream. The blossom of light jerked and fell. The men and women shouted in horror, and someone snatched at the torch. More light bloomed. A [Light] spell. There was a silhouette. The [Bandit] shrieked as Ksmvr dashed at her.

“Help me! Hel—”

An impact. A gurgling sound; the [Bandits] around her slashed wildly, but Ksmvr was gone. They backed up, holding their torches, shouting at the others.

“It’s in the cave! It’s in the cave—”

“Get out! Run!”

“No, stick together—we can box it in! Don’t run, don’t—”

But it was too late. The [Bandits] streamed out, some fleeing in a blind panic. The rest stayed together, holding up torches and balls of light. They heard shouts in the night. Screams…the fleeing shapes fell one by one. A dark blur leapt around them, jumping, rather than walking. The remaining [Archers] tried to hit it, but their arrows bounced off the magical cloak or missed.

And then there were no more sounds. Just darkness. The [Bandits] looked around. There were eleven left. The [Swordsman] was pale as he looked back and forth.

“Show yourself!”

There was no sound. No movement. The hills towered around the bandits. The grass waved in the night’s breeze. The sky was cloudy. Shadows flickered. The [Bandits] jumped, clustering together.

“We surrender!”

A young man shouted, his face pale. He held up his arms, raising his hammer and letting it drop as his torch burned over his head. An arrow shot out of the darkness. He screamed.

“Coward!”

The [Swordsman] bellowed. But the rest were silent. They drew together. Ten. They would have prayed, but the gods were dead. So they just held together, fearing, waiting. Ready to fight and die rather than run and die alone.

A minute passed. Then two. Three more arrows flew out of the darkness, but the [Bandits] had shields up. One yanked out an arrow, sobbing, as another poured healing potion on her wound. And then he appeared.

A shadow, walking under the moonlight as the clouds parted. A dark brown and black figure holding a shortsword and dagger. His buckler flared to life as he activated it again. The dagger burned red.

His segmented eyes reflected the lights from the [Bandit]’s torches. His carapace was cut. Pierced by arrows. But he had taken no great wounds. He walked forwards without words. Straight at the [Bandits].

A monster out of Rhir. A nightmare worthy of the legend.

Antinium.

The Humans shuddered. They backed up. But then they held. It was hold or run. If they ran, they died in the night. The [Swordsman] held up his blade. He stared at Ksmvr. His voice was hoarse.

“What are you? What are…”

Ksmvr twitched one antenna. His mandibles opened and rose.

“Me? Substandard.”

And then he leapt up. And he fell, shrieking like a thing out of hell. For psychological effect.



——



The Adventurer’s Guild in Celum was quiet in the very early morning. Some adventurers were early risers by nature, and others had come in after an overnight job to collect their pay. But it wasn’t bustling just past dawn. The only sounds that were present in the guild mainly came from the bleary-eyed [Receptionist] doing her job, and from Stan. The old man was sitting at a table, grousing loudly.

“Damned Antinium bastard. We waited all night and did it show? No! And that young [Innkeeper] said she hadn’t seen him! When I get my hands on that—that bug thing—”

“Maybe it realized we were trying to bargain for those artifacts.”

Alais looked bleary and slightly hung over. She’d enjoyed herself at The Wandering Inn, despite Ksmvr’s no-show. Stan folded his arms.

“If it—he—did, he could at least have let us know! It’s damned rude.”

“We put his team in prison. Still, you’re right, Stan. Maybe Ksmvr got into trouble? I checked Celum’s jail, but perhaps he fell afoul of Liscor?”

Stan calmed down a bit.

“Or maybe he got hurt. Or lost. I heard someone say they saw him riding out of Celum. On a horse. I thought they were twisting my leg, but—”

“Stan?”

Alais had jerked up in her seat. Stan turned his head. He swore.

“You!”

Ksmvr looked up as he trudged into the guild. His body was covered with mud and dust. And blood. Dried, green blood spattered his armor. He had a few cuts, but the rest were healed. He swayed and stood straighter.

“Me.”

Crossbow Stan got up and strode towards him. His fists were clenched.

“You’ve got some nerve coming here after—”

He stared at Ksmvr.

“What in the hells happened to you?”

“I completed the request. I killed the [Bandits].”

Ksmvr walked past Crossbow Stan. The man stared at him in shock, then outrage.

“You? You’re kidding. You couldn’t have killed—there are at least thirty—hey! Where were you last night? We told you—”

He grabbed Ksmvr’s shoulder. The Antinium stopped.

“Let go of me, please.”

“Not until you—”

Ksmvr drew his shortsword. The other adventurers looked up. Stan stepped back. The Antinium turned his head. Alais was on her feet.

“Thank you. Now, excuse me.”

He walked up to the [Receptionist]’s desk. The woman eyed him with apprehension and ill-concealed distaste.

“I can’t just give a bounty out for someone who claims to have killed [Bandits]. You need proof. And I’ll have to test you with a [Detect Lies] spell. Besides, like Mister Stan said, the [Bandits] are at least—”

Ksmvr reached for his bag of holding. He placed it on the counter, then looked around. He eyed the counter and shook his head. The Antinium trudged over to a table and dragged it over. The adventurers winced at the screech of wood on wood. Ksmvr stopped the desk in front of the counter.

“This is enough surface area. Here is my proof.”

He reached into the bag of holding and pulled out a severed head. The [Receptionist] recoiled and then screamed. The Drake’s vacant, lolling head stared at her. The head was bloodless. Ksmvr placed it neatly on the table.

“You—that—”

“What did you do?”

Alais grabbed her wand and pointed it at Ksmvr. He turned.

“The request. Wait until I’ve finished, please.”

He reached into the bag of holding. Another head appeared. The room recoiled. A Human woman stared blankly at Ksmvr. And then a man. A young man, a girl…

“Dead gods.”

Crossbow Stan backed up. Ksmvr kept pulling heads out of the bag. One, two, three, four…ten…twenty…twenty-nine minus their leader. He piled them up. And then he turned.

“There.”

The adventurers stared. Stan stared at the Drake’s head. The [Receptionist] had backed away as far as possible, shaking and trying to climb over her desk and away.

“That—that Drake. I recognize that one. And—and that one. That’s the [Bandit Leader]. And that one—that’s their [Mage]. Freezer.”

He pointed at one of the heads on top of the pile. Ksmvr nodded. His voice was loud as he turned back to the [Receptionist].

“Thank you for the confirmation, Captain Stan. However, I will readily submit to a truth detection spell to prove all of these individuals were [Bandits]. I hope this is sufficient proof, though.”

He looked at the woman. She was shaking so hard she couldn’t formulate a reply. She made a shaky animal noise.

“Is this sufficient?”

“I—you—y—th—”

Ksmvr kept staring. Then he leaned over the table.

“Eleven hours.”

The [Receptionist] froze. Ksmvr spoke slowly.

“Eleven hours after defeating the [Bandits]. That is how long it took to collect the bodies, create a pyre for disposal, remove the heads, burn them, collect their gear, reclaim my horse, which had wandered off, set the others free, and ride back here. Eleven hours. I have imbibed two stamina potions. My wounds have yet to fully heal. I have had inadequate sustenance. I am hungry. I am tired. I am in a bad mood. Is this sufficient?”

“Yes!”

The woman cowered. Ksmvr nodded.

“Then please give my team the reward. I believe it is a hundred gold coins.”

“I—I have to get a signature!”

The [Receptionist]’s eyes darted around for help. There was none. Ksmvr looked around, and the adventurers flinched. They saw the blood on his carapace. Green, Antinium blood. Which meant the streaks of red weren’t his. They stared at the heads. At him. Ksmvr turned back to the [Receptionist].

“Paperwork. Quill and ink, please.”

Her hands shook as she fumbled for the right form. Ksmvr studied it. He dipped a quill in the inkpot as the woman fled towards the back. The [Guildmaster] wasn’t in today. She had to open the Guild’s vaults herself.

She returned, still shaking, and stared at the heads as if they were a dream. The pile stared back at her. The woman realized this wasn’t a dream. The slowly decomposing heads were—she looked at Ksmvr. He looked up, and she shrieked.

“I’ve finished my details. Where do I sign?”

“H—h—he—he—”

Ksmvr stared down at the general spot the finger was shaking in.

“Here? I see.”

He began scribbling on the form. After a moment, he looked up.

“Pardon me. Do I list my team as ‘The Horns of Hammerad’ or do I omit the prefix?”

“H—h—”

“Horns of Hammerad. Thank you.”

He finished writing. Ksmvr held up the piece of paper. He looked at the [Receptionist]. She was frozen. He waved the paper at her, and she backed up.

“Naturally I’d like to turn in the heads as monster parts for processing. My bag of holding couldn’t fit the other body parts, but I will accept any reward the guild posts on Human heads, brains, flesh, or skeletal matter. Assuming they aren’t collected as part of the bounty?”

Stan saw the woman had frozen. She looked like she was going to have a heart attack. One of the other adventurers was being sick; a few others were gagging or throwing up as well. He stared at the heads. It was just a dream. That Antinium couldn’t have—

“We don’t—we don’t—use heads. Not Human ones. Or Drakes.”

“Really? Odd. Then I will collect my payment.”

“Here!”

The [Receptionist] dropped the bag of gold on the counter. A head rolled off the pile and onto the floor. The sound it made, the fleshy thump, was the realest thing Crossbow Stan had ever heard. The [Receptionist] stared at the head. She turned and ran out of the building, screaming. Three adventurers followed her.

“Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead…”

Alais was swallowing hard. Stan couldn’t take his eyes off Ksmvr. The Antinium was counting the gold coins one by one as he put them in his bag of holding. When he was done, he straightened and looked around.

“Is my team not released yet?”

“No.”

“I see. Thank you.”

Ksmvr nodded at Stan. Then, ignoring the heads, he walked over to an empty table and chair. The adventurers left in the guild scattered in front of him. Ksmvr pulled the chair back. He sat down in the chair and opened his mandibles slightly. The upright, rigid posture the Antinium had kept up all the while turned into a sag. Ksmvr leaned forwards, nearly fell out of the chair. He tried placing his arms on the table. No good. He kept falling sideways. So he stood up, walked over to the wall, just underneath the job board.

Ksmvr sat with his back to the wall and curled up like a pill bug. He was sitting like Workers and Soldiers did, trying to stay awake but fading, fading…

The Antinium passed out as the morning light filled the Adventurer’s Guild, and a rookie team of Bronze-rank adventurers entered the building and saw the pile of severed heads. He didn’t hear the screaming. He was already asleep. That was how his team found him, three hours later.



——



“Dead gods.”

“Tree rot.”

“I wish he’d saved the bodies.”

Three voices woke Ksmvr up. He jerked upright amid a babble of voices. Waking up took Ksmvr a few moments. He heard the three familiar people. An argument. Shouting.

“What’s to be done? If it went out and butchered—”

An arguing voice raised in reply, exasperated, worried, shocked.

“Hey, Stan recognized two of them! If you want to test him, be my guest! But I’ll bet those are exactly the same [Bandits] you wanted dead—”

“All by himself?”

A sneering tone.

“Of course. Or did you think the Antinium bred pacifistic, ineffectual warriors? I hardly see what all the fuss is about—”

An authoritative tone.

“Try and arrest him without proof, and I will drop you. Alais, drop the wand. If you point it at him again—”

Ksmvr woke up. His vision returned. He looked around. There were people gathered around the table. Lots of them. Celum’s City Watch, adventurers, people staring at the table with the heads on it…but the three people Ksmvr wanted most were right there, protectively standing around him. He sleepily opened and closed his mandibles.

“I slept as ordered, Captain Ceria. Was your incarceration pleasant?”

The voices stopped. Every eye fixed on Ksmvr. He saw a half-Elf jump, then turn. Ceria Springwalker looked down at Ksmvr.

“Hey…Ksmvr.”

“Hello, Captain. I have completed our request.”

Ksmvr sat up, watching Ceria’s expression closely. He tried to see if she was angry or disappointed. Or sad or…but her face was hard to read. A strange expression was written across it, one Ksmvr had no name for.

“I see that, Ksmvr. Why did you go alone?”

The Antinium felt a pang of fear in his chest. He clasped two of his hands together as he spoke.

“Because…I heard other teams were going to take our request. And I thought our team should not forfeit our request. You were gone. I stayed out of trouble. I did not tell Miss Erin where you were. And I slept.”

“You didn’t think taking out a [Bandit] gang was too much?”

The Antinium shook his head.

“I calculated the risks. I estimated that since you or Comrade Pisces or Yvlon could handle the group yourselves, I should be able to. I had help. Comrade Pisces helped. And I borrowed his ring.”

“He told us about that in the jail. He didn’t know what happened after that. Someone squashed his moth.”

“Yes.”

Her face was still unreadable. Ksmvr wanted to look at Pisces or Yvlon, but he was afraid of what he might see. He clutched his hands tightly together.

“I hope I did not act out of place. I only wanted to be a helpful member of the group…”

His voice trailed off, becoming small. Ksmvr’s gaze was drawn to his boots. He heard nothing for a second, and then Ceria reached out.

“Hey. Ksmvr.”

His head rose up. The half-Elf smiled at him. She turned around, to the audience, at her teammates, and then at Ksmvr. She patted him on the shoulder gently, noting his unhealed wounds.

“Good job. But next time don’t be so reckless.”

Ksmvr opened his mandibles in a smile. That was all he wanted to hear.

Good job.



——



There was more after that, of course. More shouting, explanations—Ksmvr was only too happy to explain, and to apologize for his brusque behavior after his sleep.

“It was most unprofessional. I can normally go for a day without sleep without undue mental effects. I am most sincerely regretful.”

For some reason, that didn’t really help matters. But Captain Ceria had taken over the conversation and, aided by a [Detect Lies] spell and the expedient of pointing at the heads and saying ‘are those the [Bandits] or not? Okay, what’s the problem?’, somehow much of the issue seemed to resolve itself. The Horns were only stopped by a hysterical [Receptionist] who demanded what should be done with the severed heads.

“I could take—”

Pisces yelped as Yvlon turned and delicately punched him in the stomach. He rubbed at his gut as the [Wounded Warrior] turned back to the shrieking [Receptionist]. Yvlon waited until the woman was done screaming before she replied.

“I saw [Receptionists] in Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild finishing off Face-Eater Moths after the monsters attacked the city. You can grab a shovel.”

“Yeah. We did our job. Come on, Ksmvr. You need a proper bed.”

“I do not use beds. But the consideration is welcome.”

Ksmvr followed Ceria as she pushed past the adventurers and City Watch. They didn’t look happy, but they stood well clear of Ksmvr. They were still staring. The Antinium was nearly at the door when a thought hit him. He held up a hand.

“Captain Ceria. Pause a moment, please. I would like to address the room.”

“Oh? Go ahead.”

Warily, Ceria turned. Ksmvr looked about. A sea of Humanity and a few non-Humans stared at him. The Antinium bowed politely.

“Good morning. I apologize for any unorthodox behavior. However, I would simply like to say that my team has done nothing wrong. You were wrong for falsely accusing Captain Ceria and Yvlon. If you do it again, I will take umbrage.”

They just stared at him. Ksmvr studied the glares, the looks of fear, and nodded.

“I would also like to note that with the Horns of Hammerad’s successful completion of this assignment with a solo member of our group, when no team was capable of doing so by themselves, we have established our superiority over other teams in this guild. I understand that equates to dominance in Human culture.”

At last there was a shift in the crowd. Ksmvr saw an adventurer open his mouth furiously.

“What the hel—”

Ksmvr turned, quick as a whip, to face the adventurer. The man froze for a second. He stared at the Antinium, and his tongue failed him. Ksmvr nodded.

“Dominance.”

Then he turned and walked out the door. Ceria followed him, shaking her head. Yvlon was smiling. Pisces stopped to laugh for ten seconds before the other two pulled him after them.



——



The Horns of Hammerad walked down the street. A [Necromancer] in pristine white robes, a yawning half-Elf, a [Wounded Warrior] wearing bright armor and lending her shoulder to an Antinium covered in mud and blood of two colors. People stared as they passed, but the four didn’t care. They spoke to each other and only to each other.

“Well, we’ve officially burned our bridges in Celum. I wouldn’t be surprised if we’re banned from the city.”

“For something I did?”

“…Nah. I think it was a bad scene. And Celum’s clearly too small for us, right Yvlon?”

“After this? I think so. Time to go north. Or south?”

“True. I wonder if there’s work around Pallass? You know, in Drake lands?”

“I should imagine so. And I believe even the tiresome Drake governance would be a welcome improvement over Celum’s benign incompetence.”

“I’m going to assume that meant what I think it did. Ksmvr, how are you? Need another potion?”

“I am quite well, Yvlon. I am only…tired.”

“Don’t scare me like that again.”

“I did not wish to. I only wanted to be helpful.”

“You were. Really. But Ceria’s right. We do things as a team. If you wanted to prove you can hold your own…you definitely did that.”

“Thank you. Thank…you for saying that.”

“Indeed. You must discuss your tactics. I observed some of it. Fine work using all of your magical artifacts. Ceria, Yvlon, I will readily admit that Ksmvr’s strategy outstripped our own. And his Ring of Jumping—we have severely underestimated the mobility it affords.”

“Really? Ksmvr can tell us over drinks, then. Oh, damn. We stood Garia up!”

“We can invite her as an apology.”

“Indeed. I must also confess I tricked both Captain Stan and Captain Alais yesterday.”

“Seriously? Ksmvr, I could kiss you.”

“…Okay? But I have an announcement to make.”

“Let’s hear it.”

“Indeed.”

“I have obtained the [Skirmisher] class as a result of my reaching Level 20.”

“Ksmvr!”

“Well done!”

“Indeed. Quite appropriate…don’t poke me! I’m being genuine.”

“Sorry. Couldn’t tell.”

“Ahem. May I finish? I have also received the [Quick Movement] Skill along with an evasion Skill. I believe this, combined with my Ring of Jumping, will expedite new tactics that…Yvlon, you are hugging me tightly. Yvlon? I am having trouble breathing. Oh, Captain Ceria?”

That was all. There was more, but that was enough. The Horns walked back together, talking, laughing, smiling. A team, however fragile.

And in the Adventurer’s Guild, as a [Laborer] earned one of the most unpleasant hauling jobs in his lifetime, a [Receptionist] hurried out of the guild. She made a beeline for the Mage’s Guild and sent a [Message]. It was one of eight, all with the same content. All with the same intended recipient. The [Messages] read something like this:



The [Necromancer] known as Pisces and [Ice Mage] Ceria Springwalker are both present in Celum, travelling in the Silver-rank team, Horns of Hammerad. Please send to current location of Wistram group led by Mage Montressa du Valeross to claim five gold coin reward.



Naturally, only the first sender got the reward. It was cruel, but that was how it worked. Anyways, Ksmvr didn’t care. He was eating a celebratory cake. It was a very good day for him.





6.20 D


Talenqual. It wasn’t cool enough for a proper name, like the City of Serpents, the Ironforged Hearth of the North, the Titan’s School, and so on. It was just Talenqual.

That was fine. Unless you had an ego issue about something like that. This may have been true for the company that controlled the city as its prized headquarters, a hard-won seat of power for them. But it was just peachy for everyone else who lived there. Talenqual was a good city. It just wasn’t famous.

It was, in fact, a lot nicer to live in than other cities. Like, say, Liscor, the Drake city that had been popping up in the news lately. Talenqual was much nicer than Liscor vis-à-vis their location, natural resources, and most importantly, discretionary budget. As a port city, Talenqual could trade on its nali-stick fields, abundant orchards, pastoral land, as well as pull in trade and sustain itself with fishing. By contrast, Liscor survived solely based on its limited holdings and its army, which was never around to actually defend the city.

True, the company controlling Talenqual, the Featherfolk Brigade, had only a fraction of its forces near the city. But the company acted as a support to the local law enforcement, and it never left Talenqual unguarded. Additionally and more importantly, the Featherfolk Brigade was willing to pay to eliminate threats it couldn’t be pressed to deal with itself.

So, snakes. About two and a half weeks ago, a group of Silver-rank teams had gotten wind of a possible dungeon near Talenqual. They had dug into it and, as was the way of many dungeon raids, uncovered death and monsters instead of treasure. They had unwittingly unleashed a pack of massive snakes capable of swallowing regular warriors whole.

It might have meant the end of the Silver-rank teams, but an unusually rapid and effective response from the city’s highest-level inhabitants had destroyed almost all of the giant snakes in a short, one-sided battle. It was a triumph that had saved lives and come at no real cost. A wonderful achievement.

However, it didn’t mean all the snakes were dead. A lot had been killed, skinned, and harvested for meat and other parts (giant snake eyes were a delicacy), but the city was well aware of the dangers if the giant snakes were left to reproduce or if more were left unchecked. So they’d put a hefty bounty on snakes. And as the torrential spring rains let up one midmorning, one group of adventurers was there to collect.

A trio of giant serpents slithered out of their lair, angry and looking for blood. A Human fled ahead of them, arms pumping wildly as she ran for her life. The snakes followed her, fast as horses. The young woman had a head start, but they were closing fast. And they were angry; the smoke and controlled fire the adventurer had set outside of their subterranean home probably played a part.

They were going to catch her. Siri looked over her shoulder as she dashed out of the clearing around the snake’s lair and towards the edge of the forest ahead. The snakes were hot on her heels. But if she could just make it to the trees—!

One of the serpents coiled and sprang. Siri saw it coming as she glanced back and swerved. She heard a huge impact to her right and decided that was too close. The watchers in the trees agreed.

“Now!”

A hail of crossbow bolts struck the serpent that had leapt at Siri, going for the eyes. The snake recoiled as the steel-tipped bolts clattered off its scales; two landed but barely went through the thick scales of the snake. Too far away. Siri swore and doubled her sprint. The snakes’ attention split between her and the forest. They had sensed the heat coming off the group in the forest. Two split off while one kept chasing Siri.

“Hit the eyes! Hit the bloody eyes!”

A male voice shouted as a second volley flew from the trees. This time, his order had an effect; one of the snakes reared back, making a pained hissing sound like steam escaping a twelve-foot kettle as it reared back. The other bolts snapped or bounced off. And the two snakes were heading into the forest—Siri dodged into the trees as the one following her lunged again and hit a tree.

Now the snakes were close to the attackers. They slithered around the trees, looking for their prey. They’d sensed the heat of their would-be victims. And they were…

Up?

One of the giant snakes, patterned purple and green across its massive head, looked up. It opened its mouth, exposing a set of small, fanged teeth. Daly, sitting in the treetop, realized that meant it wasn’t actually venomous. It was a relative of the boa constrictor, which squeezed its prey to death before consuming it whole.

This breed of giant serpent had clearly taken a similar but different approach; with its humongous body it could literally smash a bear or deer to death without worrying about horns or claws damaging its armored body. It was clearly an apex predator in many regards. For a moment, the Australian adventurer marveled at the magical biodiversity of nature. Then he pulled the trigger and shot a crossbow bolt straight through its eye.

“Got it! Two have only one eye; take the others out!”

Around him, the Bushrangers shouted as they poured more crossbow bolts down. The snakes, writhing in agony, struck the trees with their heads, shaking the branches, but failing to dislodge the adventurers. The Bushrangers had chosen their positions well. Daly loaded his crossbow as he looked around.

“Where’s the third serpent!?”

He saw movement in the trees. Daly heard a shout and swore as he stood up on his branch. He was very high up and felt a jolt in his stomach. But he had to see. Where was she—there!

Siri was running towards them, dodging through the trees as the enraged snake tried to follow her. It was quick, but the trees were slowing it down, giving it no opportunity to spring again. It was still too fast, though. Daly looked down. Siri was passing a very dense set of trees. Almost, almost…he waited until the serpent was passing by the stand of thick-trunked trees and then shouted.

“Eldima, now!”

A group of Dullahans exploded from their cover. The Rustless Guard, a group of Dullahans wearing armor led by Captain Eldima, leapt forwards and hauled on the ropes they’d set between the trees. The thick coils of ropes came up and suddenly, the giant snake found itself snared. By a net! It turned, but the Dullahans were braced and heaving hard; six of them drew up the net and secured it to the pre-cut anchors in the trees.

They’d formed an enclosure around the snake! It immediately tried to break free, but the ropes were as thick as Daly’s arm and secured hard; the giant monster also had no room to move as the ropes forced its body into the enclosure. It heaved, and Daly saw the ropes strain, but it was trapped.

For now. It could break free, but this bought them time. Daly whistled as he saw Siri come to a halt. Eldima turned, and he pointed.

“Snakes inbound! Get ready!”

The two serpents had noticed the Dullahans on the ground and decided to give up trying to knock the crossbow-wielding adventurers off their trees. They slithered forwards, and Eldima shouted.

“Rustless Guard, forward!”

Her Dullahans moved forwards, shouting as they brought up their heavy weapons. Warhammers, axes, shields—they were a heavily-armed and armored team. By contrast, the Bushrangers were light on gear. Daly turned to his team.

“We’re going down! Move it!”

His team scrambled down from the trees. They’d all taken positions at least fifteen feet in the air, well above the serpents, but that meant they’d normally have a terrible time getting down without risking broken bones. Normally, except for what they were all wearing.

Harnesses. As Daly grabbed a rope and checked his figure-eight knot, he grasped the rope tied to his harness and jumped. He immediately went down, but slowly; he used one hand to lower himself at a controlled drop to the ground. The rope was running through a device attached to his harness; as Daly jumped down his tree trunk, he watched it taking the rope, letting him stop himself from falling too fast.

The other Bushrangers were doing the same. Five adventurers plunged out of the trees with Daly to varying degrees of expertise. It was a textbook maneuver, one they’d practiced. But it went wrong. Halfway down, Daly heard a ping from his left. He looked over just in time to see one of the metal devices snap. The man holding onto his rope dropped with a scream.

“Dawson!”

The Australian hit the ground with a thump. Daly shouted. He leapt downwards and tore himself loose from his ropes. Cursing, he ran over to his friend in the harness. Dawson was sitting up, but his face was white.

“My—my shoulder—”

Daly saw a horrible protrusion poking out of Dawson’s shoulder blade, moving the leather armor he was wearing. He swore. Then he noticed Dawson’s right leg was also sitting at a bad angle.

“Hold on! Don’t move! Tofte! Cover Dawson! Drag him away! The rest of you, harnesses off! Follow me!”

He couldn’t focus on Dawson. The Rustless Guard had engaged the serpents in the trees, and all Daly could see were the backs of the serpents. He yanked off the restrictive harness, swearing as he tried to pull it off one leg. Then he charged forwards. Three of the Bushrangers went with him as Tofte ran over to Dawson.

The fight with the giant serpents was one that had happened before. Captain Eldima’s team had been part of it. They’d lost horribly; the serpents had sent the Silver-rank adventurers fleeing, helpless in front of their superior size and strength and armor. But that was because they’d been surprised. And that was the thing about adventurers; if they survived, they learned from their mistakes. They didn’t lose twice.

This time, there were only three serpents. And they were fighting in a bad environment. The trees prevented the giant constrictors from moving as freely. And the Rustless Guard was fighting in the gaps, refusing to be encircled or let the snakes bite them. As the Bushrangers charged in, they developed another advantage.

“Nets!”

Daly shouted as his team grabbed the nets they’d tossed to the ground and rushed to help bind the serpents. It was quick, desperate work; the snakes did not want to be bound, but their heads were busy biting and striking at the Dullahans. That gave the Bushrangers time to sling ropes and nets underneath the huge serpents and pull, anchoring the ropes to trees, and limiting the serpent’s mobility.

It wasn’t clean. Daly swore as the serpent he was trying to force a rope under twisted and nearly crushed his entire arm. He wrenched his limb free, feeling a moment of horrible pain, but getting clear before it took his arm. And when he got a rope under it and began to ensnare it, anchoring the other end to a tree while Siri wrapped up the snake and anchored her section, he saw two other members of his team struggling.

“Tie the knot!”

Kami, an Australian girl, was shouting at Aldenon. He was struggling with his end of rope, and the serpent whose tail they’d grabbed wasn’t having it. Daly turned.

“Kami! Don’t try and hold it yourself! Don’t—”

Too late. As Kami began to let go, the snake twisted and tore itself free of the ropes. Aldenon fell backwards as the rope came loose in a tangle that snapped him across the face. Kami screamed; Daly saw that she’d been pulled right off her feet. She fell down, and he realized the force of the snake had nearly wrenched her arms out of their sockets.

“Damn, damn—”

Daly sprinted over towards Kami and dragged her back. He grabbed the rope as Aldenon retied the knot and got the snake’s midsection this time. It strained at the rope, and the entire rope nearly snapped, but suddenly it was anchored. The Rustless Guard descended on the snakes as the remaining Bushrangers continued to ensnare the snakes. But that was only the distraction.

The nets held the snakes; the Dullahans finished the job. Eldima and three Dullahans waded into the snake that had knocked Kami off her feet; they’d brought warhammers and began hacking at the snake’s head as it found itself more and more restricted. Unable to dodge or move away, the snake bit and head-butted furiously. But it was trapped. For all its scales were tough, with a good swing and the right weapon, the scales opened up.

The first snake collapsed after five minutes of fighting, the remains of its head a mess of gouged flesh and deformed impacts from the warhammers. The Dullahans turned to the second, which was still fighting the nets. It tore itself free of one anchor as a rope snapped, but the Dullahans kept the head at bay as Eldima and another Dullahan attacked the midsection. It was firmly held in place so the Dullahans didn’t risk fighting the head; they just hacked the snake in two.

“[Razor Slash]!”

Eldima’s axe sliced through the first layer of scales and flesh like it were paper. Her battleaxe dug into the snake as it screamed; the other Dullahan helped her keep chopping through the snake. It survived the bisection, but it died shortly thereafter. That just left the third snake, still enmeshed in the trap.

“What do we reckon?”

Daly panted as he watched the second snake’s mouth fall open and the weakly writhing body stop at last. Eldima wiped blood out of her eyes; the arms and front of her armor were soaked red. She looked grimly at the snake.

“Same as the other two. We’ll cut through its body; we can save the head.”

“Got it. Bushrangers—”

“Or we could try wrapping it up.”

Daly paused. He looked at the Dullahan [Captain]; she had dark skin but blonde hair, a combination not seen often on Earth. She paused to look at him as her team formed up.

“We could capture it. If you have more ropes, and you think we could, Sir Daly—we could drag it back to Talenqual. It would be an effort, but I think many [Beast Masters] would pay a lot of gold for a snake like this.”

“Seriously?”

The Dullahan nodded seriously. She kept her eyes on the serpent all the while; it was fighting the ropes, and Daly could see some of the fibers snapping; the nets wouldn’t hold forever.

“Snakes can be trained. Or kept as a pet, even. And if you breed them for food or eggs…”

“Daly.”

Siri came up, panting. The other Bushrangers were on their feet, even Kami, and they looked tired, but mostly unhurt. Daly hesitated. All eyes were on him, both his team and the Rustless Guard. He thought for a second then shook his head.

“No. Too risky. We can’t haul it all the way, and I don’t trust our ropes. Take it out, Captain Eldima.”

“Yes, sir. You, you, and—”

Eldima turned instantly and selected three of her people. Daly didn’t watch them take out the final snake. He looked at Siri.

“Help them out. I’m checking on Dawson.”

She nodded. She had a coil of rope slung over her shoulder and her crossbow in her other hand, loaded and aimed at the ground.

“Got it. You want me to shoot the eyes out?”

“Apparently we can get as much as a gold coin for each eye. So no, not unless they’re struggling.”

Siri nodded. Daly jogged back through the trees. He found Dawson sitting with his back to the tree. Tofte was covering him with a crossbow and shortsword. The young man from Norway looked up sharply.

“How’s it?”

“All sorted. Dawson, mate. How’re you doing?”

The Australian grinned palely at Daly.

“Fuck me, Daly. I think I’ve dislocated my shoulder. And my leg’s twisted or—my damn gri-gri broke!”

Daly nodded. He’d seen the metal piece snap off during the descent. He couldn’t think of anything to say, though. Sorry it happened? Too bad?

“Glad you didn’t fall further. Too bad you didn’t fall on your head, though; you’d be fine, then.”

Dawson laughed, swore, and cursed Daly at the same time. The Australian breathed a sigh of relief. He straightened and looked at Tofte.

“We’re going to need a stretcher.”

“I can walk. Just give me a shoulder—”

“Forget it. We’ll get Eldima’s squad to help us out. For now—let’s get one worked out. Tofte, break out those blankets from the packs…”

And then it was over. Eldima’s squad finished off their serpent without more than a bite on one of the Dullahan’s arms, and healing potions sorted out the rest. They came over, panting, drinking water, stamina potions, or healing potions, and gathered around Dawson. Daly started giving orders after a short break.

“Alright, we’ve nearly got a stretcher worked out. Tofte’s got crafting Skills. Eldima, anyone in your team have any classes in crafting?”

The Dullahan shook her head. She was washing her iron armor off; bugs were already landing and circling.

“I’m afraid I don’t. How is your man? Is he injured beyond a healing potion?”

“Shoulder’s dislocated. According to Geneva, we don’t want to use a healing potion. She needs to set it right. And his leg…I’m not sure how bad it is.”

“Doctor G will put me right. Don’t you dare pour a healing potion on me.”

Dawson groaned. He was fading. Daly looked around quickly.

“Siri.”

“Right here.”

The Swedish girl was cutting some rope up to help make the stretcher. Daly nodded in the direction of the main road, some three miles south of here.

“See if you can get to the road with…Kami. Your arms alright, Kami? Good. Then go over there and find a Runner or someone willing to give us a lift for Dawson. I want him back in Talenqual fast. Make sure it’s a smooth ride—and then call for our friends from the Runner’s Guild. Uh…”

“Pihava and Bault?”

“Exactly. I want them and…make it two other pairs with big wagons. We’ll get Dawson to the road.”

“Got it, boss.”

Siri and Kami turned and grabbed their packs before heading out at a jog. Daly looked around.

“Eldima?”

“Sir?”

The Dullahan straightened. Daly saw her team glance up and caught himself. They weren’t in a combat situation, so he took a breath.

“Sorry. Captain Eldima, I would be very grateful if your team would assist us with butchering the serpents. The critters are already gnawing at them, and I want to save the meat.”

The Dullahan smiled at Daly.

“Of course. My team is free for whatever you need.”

The Australian nodded.

“Excellent. Then—can you begin cutting the snakes up? Hack them into pieces we can actually carry to the wagons? Try and get them in pieces so we can harvest big chunks of their skin.”

“Of course.”

Daly nodded. He looked at the rest of his Bushrangers.

“As for our team…I’ll help Dawson with that stretcher. Aldenon, Tobi, you’re both on lookout for anything smelling blood. The rest of you, let’s make up something to help drag the snakes towards the road…”

And so they did. It wasn’t as easy as Daly made it out to be; without her [Razor Cut] Skill, Eldima and her team had a hard time making precise cuts, and the bloody snake parts were being covered in bugs. The Dullahans swore and their armor got bloody and dirty, as did the precious snake parts. And dragging them through the jungle was a hellish ordeal; Daly had to come back and help once he had helped lift Dawson up with two Dullahans and bring him towards the road. Three miles of walking through forest, and then flatter ground, was no fun for Dawson. He fainted when they dropped him, but he said little. He just gave Daly a thumbs-up when he got to the wagon.

“Sorry for falling back there, Daly.”

“You did nothing wrong. Your device broke, Dawson. You just rest up. Geneva’ll see to you as soon as you get back. You’ll be on your feet by the end of the day.”

There was hope in Dawson’s eyes as he leaned back in the small rickshaw Pihava had galloped over with.

“That’ll be nice. Hell of a thing, healing potions. Back home, this would have…”

He trailed off. Daly checked him anxiously, but Dawson was just unconscious. Daly looked at Kami.

“You go with him. Tell Geneva to check out your arms. And put in a message at the Adventurer’s Guild that we have oversized snakes ready for dissection. They’ll probably direct you to a [Butcher]’s—have them meet us at the gates.”

“You got it.”

Kami swung herself up into the rickshaw. Pihava pawed the ground anxiously.

“Your friend’s okay?”

“Right as rain, Pihava. He’s not badly hurt. Thanks for getting here.”

The Centauress smiled.

“No problem. And your other wagons are on the way!”

Daly waved her off, then went to help pull the snakes out of the jungle. Three miles of carrying bloody, buggy, smelling snake parts, sometimes as a group of eight, balancing the bloody harvest on their shoulders. That wasn’t the part of adventuring you ever thought about, but the snakes were money. As much money as his team would get for killing the damn things. Daly sent off one wagon full of the bloody cargo for immediate butchering in Talenqual; he warned the drivers they’d have to wash off the meat first. The Centaur, Bault, just laughed.

“Don’t worry. Our [Butchers] will get good cuts. And they’ll make sure nothing lays eggs in the meat. Good thing you went to the Adventurer’s Guild; they’ll hire quality butchers.”

The other three Centaurs shuddered as they turned and began lugging the laden wagons back with them. Daly grimaced as well; he knew the bugs of Baleros were nasty. Imagining one of the hordes of bugs swarming the snake meat laying eggs he might eat…well, his stomach was already turning, and he was covered in guts and blood. Best not to think about it.

“Is your team coming with us, then?”

The final wagon pulled by two Centaurs eyed Daly’s team apprehensively. It was a crowd. Daly shook his head.

“Not us. We’ll call for another pair of wagons, I think. Can you pull your wagon a bit off road? Sorry, but we have one last stop to make.”

The Centaur shrugged.

“You’re paying us. You’ve got more stuff for us to carry?”

“Yeah. Little snakes and eggs.”

The Bushrangers hadn’t forgotten the would-be dungeon and snake’s lair. A final return trip took nearly an hour, which made Daly regret hiring the third wagon; they got paid for waiting about. But it was fruitful. Cleared of their adults, the Bushrangers and Rustless Guard found two baby snakes the size of doors and a heap of eggs.

“Oh my god! I’m gonna throw up.”

Tobi looked green at the sight of the pile of giant eggs. Daly almost laughed.

“This bothers you?”

“It does when they’re so big! And they almost look like chicken eggs!”

Aldenon shook his head. He eyed the eggs mistrustfully, as did Eldima’s group.

“Are we smashing them, Daly? Burning?”

“Neither. We’re taking Eldima’s suggestion. We take the snakes and eggs. Alive and intact. Come on, we’ll take the eggs in pairs. Wrap those snake babies up.”

More work. By this point, both teams groaned, even the stalwart Dullahans, but Daly and Eldima egged their teams on, partly with bad puns, partly with the thought of how much live snake eggs were worth. Daly shouted as his team lifted the eggs, groaning at the weight.

“You want to earn some spending money? Think of how much a [Beast Tamer] pays for a serpent egg! Or how much it’s worth to someone who likes eating the stuff! I’m sure some Lizardfolk [Chef] will pay gold for these. Drop it and you drop our income, got it?”

That did the trick. In the end, Daly bullied, coerced, and flattered the teams into filling the Centaur’s wagon. By that point, two more wagons had returned with Pihava and Bault leading one, and three wagons returned to Talenqual. The bloody, dirty, sweaty adventurers sat in the back, washing themselves off with the last of their water. They were tired and exhausted. But the instant they saw the city, their spirits rose.

“Drive us straight to the harbor, Pihava, Bault! I’m jumping in the water!”

Aldenon called out to their Centaur Runners. The two chuckled. Daly would have loved to join them, but he regretfully called the wagons to halt.

“I’m going with the eggs and little snake babies. Adventurer’s Guild, please.”

“I will go with you.”

Eldima looked like she could have used a dip in the ocean too, but she offered and Daly accepted. Their wagon went to the Adventurer’s Guild. Happily, a Centauress [Receptionist] was already waiting for them with Siri.

“We thought you’d be back earlier. What’s this? Eggs? And…”

The [Receptionist]’s eyes widened as she saw the snake babies. Siri blinked at the large serpents, still very young but still as big as any snake Daly had ever seen in Australia.

“They’re adorable!”

“They weigh a ton. Miss, can we sell these? And these eggs are all fertilized, so they contain live snakes. No telling on when they’re hatching. Can we sell them to the Guild?”

The Centauress blinked hard, but selling giant snake eggs was, in fact, a situation she’d been trained for.

“Of course. We’ll need to find buyers quick. But I can quote you a price now. Or we can negotiate on what the Guild gets…”

“We’ll let the Guild do the sale and take our cut, thanks.”

“Of course. As for the little snakes, let me contact a [Beast Master] right now.”

The Centauress trotted off quickly. Siri peered at one of the snakes that Daly had roped up to prevent it from moving.

“It’s cute. Could we keep one, maybe?”

“Keep—you want one of those? As a pet?”

“We could try. Imagine having a fully-grown snake if one of our team became a [Beast Master]? I could try.”

Siri gently stroked the little snake’s head. It was quivering a bit; Daly stared at it. It was cute. But…he sighed.

“We can’t feed one of those yet. Sorry, Siri. But imagine how much meat it’ll eat? And finding a place for it? No.”

She looked so crestfallen, Daly had to throw her a bone.

“Tell you what. If we find a cuter, smaller animal on another hunt, we can talk about keeping the babies. If we find them. Deal?”

“Deal.”

She smiled. Now Daly would have to worry about Siri suggesting monster hunting contracts from now on. Then again…he did feel a pang of regret as he imagined a giant, fully grown snake for a war pet. But the sight of a [Beast Master] Lizardman hurrying back and the gold he gave Daly for the snakes and three of the eggs was very soothing in itself.

Daly waited for the Centauress to give him a receipt for the remaining eggs, the money from the [Butchers] who’d dissected the snake parts, and then he claimed the bounty for the destruction of three giant snakes and their nest.

Money, money, money. Daly counted it all, put it in a bulging coin pouch, and then he had to go to the harbor and wash the blood and filth off him. Siri and Eldima joined them. The Dullahan sighed as she splashed the salty water on her armor.

“At last! I was about to become sick.”

“Bloody oath! That’s a good feeling!”

Daly dunked himself twice, sighing as he felt so much cleaner. A fish swam up and nibbled at a bit of snake; he watched it flit away through the water, then turned.

“So. How was that for our first big team-up? Captain Eldima, mind joining us for a drink? Because I think we deserve some congratulations…and we should talk about how it went.”

The Dullahan paused in the act of scrubbing at her hair. She’d taken off her head to more easily tend to it, and Daly was curious to see how the water interacted with the vacant gap between her shoulders, from which light red mist was drifting. To his surprise, the water just flowed over the opening, and the mist disappeared, but a red light shone from inside the Dullahan’s body when she dunked herself. The head glared, and Siri poked Daly.

“Don’t be lewd.”

“Lewd? I, ah—come on! Sorry, Captain Eldima.”

The Dullahan blushed a bit.

“Eldima is fine, Sir Daly.”

“Then Daly’s fine, at least when we’re not, uh, working. A drink?”

She nodded as she fastened her head to her shoulders. Daly chose the nearest pub and wasted no time; the Bushrangers and Rustless Guard were waiting, so he handed Eldima a stack of coins.

“This is your team’s share. We’ll get more later, and sort out the exact numbers, but pass this out, please, Eldima. And as for you Bushrangers…”

He passed out a gold coin apiece. Eldima looked shocked; her team had taken the smaller cut and each member of the Rustless Guard was still getting a good bit more than that. Siri smiled as she explained.

“It’s company money. This is their bonus.”

“Ah. I see.”

The Dullahan nodded a few times. Daly nodded as well and waved a hand. He raised his voice.

“We’ll see about the rest, and I’ll get this to Paige. But for tonight, your first three drinks are on me, both teams!”

They cheered loudly at that. Daly smiled as the Humans began shouting orders at the Lizardgirl server who came by, and the Dullahans raised their hands, letting their team go in order of importance. He excused himself and took another table with Eldima and Siri. They settled down, and Eldima looked at Daly. He lifted a hand as a second [Server], a Centaur, delicately navigated around the tables.

“Excuse me. I’d like a mug of whatever beer you have.”

“We’ve got several. Have a preference?”

“Uh—your best bitter.”

“That will be a Calian lager. And who’s next?”

The Centaur looked at Daly. Both he and the Human were keenly aware that rank mattered, so Daly instantly turned to Eldima.

“Eldima’s next.”

She nodded appreciatively.

“I will have some dry Seamaster’s Gin.”

“And for you?”

Siri paused.

“I’ll try the gin as well.”

“I’ll have your drinks in a moment. Are you paying for that table?”

“That’s right. Send the bill over here, thanks.”

The Centaur blinked a few times. Daly clarified.

“We’ll pay.”

He nodded and trotted off. Daly sighed as he leaned back. It was amazing how many linguistic similarities this world had with his. But the concept of a ‘bill’ was still foreign to most places, especially since that was a waste of paper, parchment, and ink. He waited until everyone had a drink and downed half of his mug. Then he decided to order an appetizer.

“Got any snacks?”

The Centaur raised his eyebrow.

“How do you feel about prawns? Sautéed?”

“Beautiful. Give us a plate and some for that lot.”

“Four plates, then?”

“Sure.”

Daly smiled as the Centaur left and came back minutes later with some hot, spiced shrimps that earned him another cheer. He leaned back.

“Captain Eldima, help yourself. My team’s eating at headquarters, but a snack’s welcome.”

The Dullahan nodded appreciatively, but she still waited for Daly to snag one of the shrimps first before taking one for herself.

“Indeed it is. You’re quite generous with your team, Daly.”

“Ah, well…”

Daly grimaced. He was a bit embarrassed, actually. Drinks weren’t expensive, and neither were a few plates of shrimp. Compared to the amount of gold still resting in his belt pouch, he was stealing from his team. But it was gold that the entire company would use, so he tried not to feel too bad. He’d definitely ask the [Bartender] to buy a bottle or two for tonight, though.

“I’m not sure about generous, but after a day of hard work, we’ve all earned a break, Eldima. How’re you feeling? Your team?”

The Dullahan stopped chewing and swallowed. She answered slowly, glancing from Daly to Siri. She’d put her head on the table and was feeding it to eat. Daly knew he shouldn’t stare, but Dullahans were still fascinating to him. Half of Eldima’s team was doing the same thing, placing their heads on the table rather than keeping them on their shoulders.

“I would say my team is in very good spirits, Captain. As am I. This was one of the smoothest hunts we’ve had. And the least bloody. Not one member of my team was badly hurt, and against those giant snakes? It was refreshing to get back at them.”

She grinned toothily, and Daly and Siri nodded. Eldima paused.

“I hope your subordinate is well, though. What happened? I didn’t see one of the snakes attacking him.”

“Ah, that? He fell when he was rappelling down.”

“Rappelling?”

“Using ropes to descend the trees. I didn’t see what happened either, Daly. What was it? Did Dawson let go?”

Siri glanced at Daly. The Australian grimaced and took a longer drink before waving for a refill.

“Nope. His, uh, gri-gri broke midway down. Damn thing just fell to pieces.”

Eldima looked confused. Siri drew in her breath sharply.

“I thought they were in good condition!”

Daly grimaced.

“So did I. But I guess the [Blacksmith] who worked them up didn’t forge them quite right. Paige is going to be pissed.”

She was the one who’d come up with the idea for the Bushrangers, after all. Although it had been Paige, Dawson, and a few others in their company who’d had the experience with climbing to redevelop the tools from home. Still, just knowing how to tie a figure-eight knot, how to belay, and use a gri-gri had provided a huge advantage. Eldima looked very impressed.

“Perhaps the [Blacksmith] is not entirely at fault, although I do not know the mechanism he made. I’ve never heard of a team with the type of gear your team used, Daly, Miss Siri. I know some that can fight in heights, but the way your team went down the trees so quickly…it is profoundly different from how my team operates. No—most Dullahans would not ever dream of climbing trees. Perhaps throwing an arm up for an ambush, but sitting in the trees? The limbs would break under my weight.”

She gestured to her armor. Daly nodded.

“It’s a new tactic for us, too. But I like it. Assuming we can make sure there are no more accidents, we’re going to use this a lot. Sitting in a tree and shooting a Stelbore would be a lot safer than the ground.”

Eldima nodded cautiously.

“The Bushranger’s ability to ambush and lay traps is quite amazing. Those ropes simplified a difficult fight, as did smoking the snakes out of their lair. But I hope our teams can continue working together?”

She looked hopeful. And no wonder; over the last two weeks, both her team and the Bushrangers had participated in a number of jobs together without so much as a hitch. This latest one had put more gold into Daly’s pockets and Eldima’s than any job he’d done prior to this. He smiled reassuringly.

“No doubt about that. Your Rustless Guard has exactly what my team lacks, Eldima. Armor and heavy weaponry. If you’re willing, we’ll definitely work on other jobs. Say in two or three days? Unless a really good job pops up.”

The Dullahan nodded rapidly.

“Of course. This will be a welcome break, and we have money to spend. I will contact you if I see anything. Otherwise, I thank you again for a job well done.”

A smile played over her lips. Daly smiled and lifted his mug as his refill came just in time.

“Cheers!”



——



It was only an hour later when Daly left the tavern. The rest of his team he left to their drinks, having covered his promised amount. He might have stayed longer, but he did want a proper meal at the headquarters. And he wanted to check on Dawson.

Siri came with him. Daly had told her she could stay, but like Eldima, who’d taken off at the same time, Siri didn’t quite ‘fit’ with the rest of her team. She looked at him as he stuffed the bottle of wine under one arm. She was carrying some of the Seamaster’s Gin, which she’d taken a liking to.

“I’m not quite one of the team, Daly. You and I are team leaders. I can’t always hang out with them.”

“True enough.”

There was a disconnect, sometimes. Daly liked his team, and they worked hard, but if it came to something hard to do—like breaking up a fight, assigning punishment, or telling someone off, he had to do it. So did Siri, and that meant friendships and relationships were different. Also, they were the ones who made some of the big decisions for their team.

They were the only ones who knew about Okasha, for one. For another, they were the two who Paige called upon when she talked over problems in their group. Ken, Aiko, Geneva…they made up an inner circle. It was a known fact, and no one had accused them of being dictators. But still.

“Where’s Dawson? Geneva’s clinic?”

“Probably headquarters. She wouldn’t need to treat him that long. She told me she can fix a shoulder or even broken bones quick.”

“If she can cut people open and get to the issue, she can pour healing potion on the bone, yeah. I just wish she had anesthetics.”

Daly shuddered. Siri nodded. Both of them had been patched up by Geneva, and the process was more effective than any healing potions thanks to her many Skills. But it hurt. Geneva spot-treated injuries with healing potions, and to do that for, say, internal bleeding, she had to slice your stomach open. While you were looking up at her from the operating table.

“Headquarters it is. Hope Dawson likes this.”

The two headed off one of the main streets and down a fairly well-paved road. Normally they would have had to do a few more turns and twists to get to a poorer street where their cramped headquarters was. But not this time. They reached the United Nations company headquarters ahead of time. And it was a proper headquarters now. A pair of double-story buildings were theirs, and two streets over was Geneva’s clinic, a small place, but very clean and with thick doors. To muffle screams and crying.

“Hoi, Kirana! Is Dawson here?”

Daly opened the door and shouted into the apartment. He heard a voice, then someone pushed out of the kitchen. Priya, one of the Indian girls, pointed shyly next door.

“Kirana’s in the other apartment. Dawson is there too.”

“Got it. Thanks, Priya. Where’s Paige?”

“Same place. Dinner’s here. In twenty minutes.”

Priya pointed to a sand hourglass placed outside of the kitchen. Both Daly and Siri perked up.

“Awesome. In that case, we’ll be right back. And can you send someone here to get the Bushrangers? They’re at…uh, the Lizardgirl’s Frill.”

“Yes.”

That was that. Daly waved as he closed the door. They didn’t have a convenient door linking apartments yet, but Paige was talking Miss Hastel into letting them make one, and Daly had assured the Centauress [Landlady] that he could do it himself if need be. And both buildings were a lot bigger than their previous setup.

Nevertheless, a third building would be nice to avoid people sleeping so close together. And maybe with this…Daly pushed open the door.

“Hey Dawson, you bastard! You’d better not be hurt! We’ve got a job tomorrow!”

“Fuck off!”

A loud, cheerful voice came from a couch. Daly saw Dawson lying on his back, eating some snacks as Kirana and Paige sat in chairs around him. He glared as Daly came into the building.

“I thought you’d be checking on me right out of the clinic! You had a drink, didn’t you? Don’t lie!”

“Everyone had a drink, Dawson. But don’t be too upset or I won’t share this bottle with you. Fancy wine or gin?”

“Wine! Who bought the stinking gin?”

Siri went over and handed the bottle to Kirana as the young woman stood up.

“Me. How’re you doing, Dawson?”

The burlier fellow sat up and grimaced.

“I’m good. Doctor Geneva set my arm, which hurt like—but she fixed my foot too. Says I need two days of rest, but if we really have a job…”

“Would I do that to you?”

“Yes.”

Daly grinned as he offered Dawson the bottle. Dawson grunted appreciatively; he liked wine better than beer or spirits, especially the sweeter varieties you could buy. Kirana tutted.

“No drinking from the bottle, please! Here.”

She went into the kitchen and got a cup for Dawson. He poured himself a big drink as some more people came down the stairs.

“Hey Lorenzo, Nicoletta.”

Daly greeted the two Italians who were walking downstairs. Lorenzo waved and spoke in somewhat mangled English.

“Hello, Daly. You came back?”

Daly paused and enunciated clearly for their benefit.

“From adventuring? Yeah. We got back. We have wine. Want some?”

He pointed. Lorenzo and Nicoletta brightened considerably. But Kirana fended them off, much to their dismay.

“At dinner! Dinner! We can have some.”

“He has some.”

“He fell out of a tree!”

“Out of a…?”

“Tree. Yeah. It’s…Nicoletta?”

“Albero. È caduto da un albero.”

“Oh! How?”

Daly laughed. He tried to explain while Paige helped herself to some of Siri’s gin. Kirana took the two bottles away before more could be shared as the others came back. And soon it was time for dinner.

“Oh boy. What’re we eating today?”

“Dum aloo—potatoes and a curry sauce with rice. Also, we have some salads, some sweet muffins for dessert that Priya has baked. But our main dish is steak.”

Daly’s mouth began to water at once. Dawson heaved himself up.

“Steak? I love the sound of that!”

“Sit back down. We’ll bring it over.”

Paige pointed at the couch. Dawson lay back, grinning happily. Then he frowned.

“Wait. I thought Indian people can’t eat cows or something.”

“Beef. And that’s not an issue.”

The two Australians frowned.

“Why wouldn’t that be—”

And then Daly realized. He roared in outrage.

“Wait a second, we’re eating snake?”



——



“To be fair, it was really good snake.”

Daly burped. He had to hand it to Kirana; she’d turned the snake meat from the giant snakes into something that wasn’t only palatable, but tasty. Everyone had stuffed themselves on meat, while the vegetarians that were left had eaten the dum aloo, which really was delicious.

Daly had to admit, ever since Kirana had begun managing the kitchen, the food had turned from passable to downright delicious. If you added that to their new living environs, their teamwork with the Rustless Guard, and all the little updates since Geneva had made her big breakthrough…he actually felt good. Strange as that was, Daly felt good about life here. And how crazy was that?

It wasn’t perfect, of course. It was just better. Paige had taken one look at the Bushranger’s gold and told Daly a third building wasn’t an option.

“We can’t afford the rent yet. I want to have gold in case of emergencies, and even with our jobs, three buildings is pushing it with the other projects we’re committing to. Miss Hastel is charging us as little rent as possible, but we still need to pay her.”t

“Hey, I get it. No worries, Paige. We’ve got a lot more room than we did in the old place, even with this. Where’s Geneva?”

Daly hadn’t seen her at dinner. Paige sighed.

“At her clinic. She’s working on a new procedure or her antibiotics or something. If she’s not back in an hour, I’ll get someone to fetch her.”

“Gotcha. Ken and Aiko, how’s your side of things? Anything happen while we were on our trip?”

Ken relaxed next to the others at their small table. They were in an upstairs room next to Paige’s private workshop. Downstairs they could hear voices, laughter, someone shushing loudly—the others were watching a movie on a laptop with the last of the wine and gin. The mood was good. Ken smiled.

“I did well. My job is mainly listening and talking, so I ended a few fights.”

“What about?”

Paige sighed.

“God. Remember Michael? Well, some of the others have joined him. They’re not getting along with people praying. Especially since some of them want to pray to Mecca. And guess where that is?”

She waved a hand. Daly grimaced.

“So they’re mocking them?”

“Yes. And worse, there’s fighting about which direction they should be praying towards and if there is a god. And let me tell you, that’s not a fun argument to have. Ken sorted it, and I don’t know how.”

The young man nodded modestly.

“It is my job. After that, I went around the city.”

That meant he was doing the rounds, as some of the others put it. Ken had no set job; the United Nations company didn’t have far-off contacts as of yet. But they did have allies, and Ken made a point of visiting everyone from Miss Hastel, to the Silver-rank teams that Daly knew, to [Shopkeepers], [Captains], and so on at least once a week.

He’d go out and buy small gifts, or treat them to a meal, or buy a drink. Small things that he was budgeted for that made everyone favorably inclined towards him. It was an excellent use of a little bit of coin. Ken pretended it wasn’t nearly as important as Daly’s job, or Geneva or Paige’s, but he had been the one who’d been able to call an army to save Eldima and the others back then. Ken just turned to the young woman sitting next to him.

“Aiko was working at Geneva’s, so I do not know how she is.”

“Good! We saw two patients, both of whom had Yellow Rivers.”

Aiko shuddered. She shook her head.

“But they wanted fast cures, not what Geneva told them to do. Even though her patients in Quallet’s camp got better! I think they will be back, hopefully before it gets worse…but there are a lot of mothers asking about Geneva’s C-section! She doesn’t want to give many, though.”

“Principles.”

Daly sighed. Paige looked annoyed.

“She’s right that not everyone needs them. But we’re getting a steady income from her now. Add it into the jobs people are working and the Bushranger’s money, and we will be able to afford a third building soon. Unless we have anything else we should be spending money on? My workshop and Geneva’s experiments eat up some of our coin, but what should we save up for now?”

The Japanese [Diplomat] twiddled his thumbs absently. He looked up and nodded a few times.

“I think it is time to invest in what Daly called the ‘big things’ now. After the third building, perhaps?”

The others looked at each other. Paige sat up a bit, and Siri stopped sipping the last of her cup.

“You think so, Ken?”

He nodded carefully.

“Perhaps not all of our money should go there. Paige’s emergency fund is very wise, I think. So how about this? We save up enough money for her fund. Then we put the rest towards the apartment and rent for a month or two. And then after that? We allocate…twenty percent to paying for things everyone has been asking for. More regular [Repair] spells. Books. Proper beds. Um…”

“Toys?”

Paige suggested a tad bit sarcastically. The [Diplomat] hesitated and gave a [Diplomat]’s response.

“Not toys, but fun tools for everyone to use. A chess set, perhaps. Things like that. But that is twenty percent. The rest should go to buying Daly’s team magical equipment or Paige some magical wood. Spellbooks. And the boat Luan mentioned last time he was here.”

All eyes turned towards Daly. He felt a skip of excitement in his chest.

“That would be the turning point, sure enough. We’ve been keeping our heads above water. But if we can spring for some actual magical gear, like proper armor, or get Paige the materials she needs to make a magical crossbow…”

So far the Bushranger’s income had gone solely towards the company and putting a roof over everyone’s head and feeding them. Daly hadn’t begrudged that, although it had been hard. But now, if all the money everyone made was going towards equipping them…he held his breath. He wasn’t going to push for it. Ken looked around.

“Do you think it’s a good idea?”

“I’m sold. Especially since I’ll get more things to work with. And I want to try and learn magic. I think we all do.”

Paige leaned forwards, nodding. Siri did too, as did Aiko. That meant all of the current leaders were in agreement, and Daly didn’t think Geneva would object that hard either. He smiled.

“Then it’s settled. We’ll all draw up a wish list and take turns getting what we need. I’d be happy to make that a first priority after a third building and a spellbook. The Bushrangers have added a few of our own, but if I could get two or three [Mages] working with us, we’d be able to do a lot more.”

“Count me in. I want to learn magic.”

Siri nodded. Aiko was sighing. Everyone was, actually. Magic. Now that would be something worth all the struggles. Ken clapped his hands lightly, pleased.

“In that case, I think we have done well. Daly, thank you and your team for working so hard.”

The others murmured their agreement. Daly grinned at Siri.

“Ah, it’s nothing. We’re going to be loafing around for a day or two anyways. But I’ll light a fire under the asses of the Bushrangers, and they’ll work twice as hard once they hear they’re going to get some gear. That’s all I’ve got. Anyone else have something to bring up?”

They didn’t. So that night’s meeting of the United Nations leadership adjourned. Daly stretched as he got up.

“I need a bath.”

“Me first.”

Siri pushed past him. Daly sighed, but let her go ahead. Baths were a luxury, given that you had to get the water yourself. He glanced around as he filed out of the room. Paige was still seated, and she was giving him…he paused and let Ken and Aiko pass by.

“We should call this the security council meeting or something. Of the United Nations? Only, we actually like each other and get things done.”

Aiko laughed a bit. Ken looked blank.

“Is that a joke? I’m sorry, I don’t understand it.”

“You know, the security council from…never mind.”

Daly put his head against the doorframe. Ken smiled again, and Daly heard him ask Aiko something in Japanese—probably for an explanation. They left, and Daly waited a beat before looking back.

“Something up?”

Paige slowly got up from her chair. She nodded at the door, and Daly tilted his head. Everyone else was out of earshot. She walked past.

“Let me get some things. We’re going for a walk.”

“Why?”

She didn’t reply. Curious, Daly went downstairs and found that Geneva had finally returned. She was eating in the kitchen as the others watched Les Misérables on a laptop. Daly waved at her as Geneva munched on cold snake steak.

“Hey Geneva, how’s it going?”

“Good.”

He waited. Geneva chewed her bite and looked up. She paused.

“I didn’t have anything extraordinary happen to me. I saw Dawson; he wasn’t too badly hurt, but the fall could have been worse. Be careful with that climbing.”

Daly nodded.

“It was the, uh, gri-gri that snapped. We’ll check our gear carefully, maybe get more made and test them out.”

“Got it. I heard you killed some snakes.”

“That’s right. I think you’re eating some of them.”

The [Doctor] paused in her next bite. She hesitated, then took a bite. She chewed, and Okasha’s voice, higher-pitched and decidedly more cheerful, came out of Geneva’s mouth.

“Not bad!”

“Hey, Okasha. Take care of Geneva for us, will you?”

“Will do. Don’t get upset, Geneva. It’s just snake…”

“I hate snakes. Why did it have to be snakes?”

Daly snorted and left before Okasha could ask what was so funny. Geneva had a sense of humor? He was about to tell Paige about that as she came down the stairs. Then he noticed the look on her face. The hint of tension, hidden, and the very large, and very bulky object she had wrapped up in a sack that she was carrying oh so carefully. Daly hesitated. Could she have…?

“Where to?”

“Outside.”

Paige stepped behind the glowing laptop’s screen, and Daly followed. No one else commented; they were too busy watching the movie. The two Australians walked out of the building, down the steps, and then down the street. Daly eyed Paige and the thing she was holding. It was round, and she had a smaller burden clutched in one hand.

“Can I take…?”

“No. Take the smaller one and, for the love of god, don’t drop it. And don’t let anyone see until we’re out of the city.”

“How far out?”

“To a place no one can see. It’ll take twenty minutes. Come on. This is heavy.”

Paige picked up the pace. Daly glanced down at the small object she’d handed him. It too was concealed in a sack, but as he looked at it, something on the back of his neck began to prickle. Daly didn’t have [Dangersense], but if he did, he thought it would be going off right now.

And his intuition was good, so he followed Paige swiftly, bearing his small burden as carefully as could be. As they walked through the dark streets of Talenqual, both he and Paige stayed well away from anyone carrying a torch, a lantern, or any kind of fire.



——



Fifteen minutes of power walking later, Paige and Daly were well outside of Talenqual and in a private area of trees, off the main road. It wasn’t so deep that they couldn’t run for Talenqual; you could even see the city if you walked back a bit. But it was private—they’d passed by the outer farms and orchards to the left and gone off the main trade road.

It wasn’t exactly quiet about; the local wildlife had a cacophony of their own. But Daly sincerely doubted they had an audience.

“Alright. What’ve you got to show me you didn’t want to tell the others about?”

Daly turned to Paige. She bit her lip as she slowly and gingerly lowered her burden down.

“It’s not that I didn’t want to tell them. I just don’t know whether I should. Especially Geneva. Siri will need to know, but you asked for this, and I…wanted to get your opinion first. Remember what you asked me for? It’s done.”

She reached out and took Daly’s much more lightweight burden from him. She opened it up and gingerly pulled something out. Daly’s pulse skyrocketed at once.

They came in many shapes. And they didn’t look like the ones you saw on TV, most of the time. Except that at some point, they probably had. And the little, papier-mâché sphere the size of Daly’s hand looked exactly like one of those cartoons. Except that the orb was a whitish-grey color, not black. And the fuse was a lot, lot longer than normal, and it wasn’t lit. Otherwise? It was a bomb.

“Fuck me sideways. Is that a grenade?”

“You asked me to make one. So I did.”

Paige hunched her shoulders. She stared down at the explosive—no, the grenade-sized bomb in her hand. Daly’s skin crawled. I was just holding that! He looked at the little sphere.

“Is it safe?”

The [Engineer] looked up irritably.

“I wouldn’t have given it to you if it wasn’t safe! Don’t worry. I’ve thrown these things, knocked them about—at a distance—even put an arrow through one. They don’t explode unless there’s fire, and the sphere is sealed tight. But yes, this is a grenade. Packed with gunpowder. You want to see what it does?”

Daly nodded. He stared at the little orb. Paige had actually made…? His skin was crawling with unease. He’d never seen a real weapon like this up close. She took a few breaths.

“Okay. I’m going to light it, toss it, and it’ll go off. I didn’t fill it with anything but gunpowder, so it’ll explode, but we’ll be safe. I’ll throw it there. See? I have a clear shot.”

She walked a good bit away from the bag she’d put down and reached for her belt. She cursed.

“Damn it. I forgot to bring a lantern or something. I need to make some fire. Give me a second?”

“Sure.”

“Hold this.”

Daly froze as Paige tossed the bomb at him. He swore as he caught it.

“Don’t do that!”

“It won’t go off. Stop being a baby. You said you wanted this and I made it.”

“Yeah, but I don’t juggle explosives. Isn’t there a chance it could ignite?”

“Probably? But it’s humid. Here. Hand it back.”

Paige had a small, burning candle in one hand. Daly gingerly handed it back, and the girl took a breath.

“Okay. Here goes.”

She swiftly lit the fuse with one end. Daly saw the flame slowly burning down the waxy rope, and Paige turned. She threw the orb far and fast between a group of trees; it hit the ground and rolled for a moment. Daly watched the fuse burning. The fire didn’t exactly race down it. Still, he held his breath. Until he realized it was going to take a bit.

“Sort of slow.”

“I haven’t figured out how the fuse works best yet. And I’ve made them long for a reason.”

“Still, if we’re using this in a combat situation—”

“Just watch this one, okay?”

Daly shut up and did just that. He shifted from foot to foot as the fuse slowly burnt away. It really was too long, but Paige’s eyes were locked on the little orb. Daly wondered how much of a bang it would make. Surely not much? Grenades were small, but weren’t they filled with…higher-grade gunpowder or something? Paige had just gotten the ingredients for the stuff a little while ago. So surely—

Bang.

That was the sound the orb made. But it wasn’t a ‘bang’ or a mere pop of sound. It was a full explosion that made Daly half-duck and shot his heart up into his mouth. The sounds of the jungle instantly stopped. And the explosion was a lot larger than he’d thought. He felt the wind change from where he was standing, and when he stared at the spot where the orb had been…

“Damn.”

Daly had to force himself to inspect the blast spot. It took a moment to find the actual impact spot; some of the forest floor had been blown away, but the actual zone of impact was very small. He looked at Paige.

“That was a lot bigger than I thought it would be! But the impact…”

She shook her head.

“If you’d have been standing next to it, that wouldn’t have been fun, believe me. But grenades don’t do damage because of the explosion. It’s the shrapnel that does it. And I used paper and nothing else. That was a demo. What do you think?”

“What do I think? I think you just made a grenade, Paige! In what, two weeks? Who’s a rocket scientist, then?”

Daly grinned shakily at her, but Paige didn’t look pleased. She pointed at the bit of overturned earth.

“If I gave you some of those, Daly, shortened the fuses, and packed them with some rocks or metal, they’d be like grenades. What do you think? Would they help out your Bushrangers against those snakes you fought this morning?”

The adventurer hesitated. He looked back at the blast zone and forced himself to think. If they were filled with shrapnel and he threw, say, four of them…if you tossed one in a snake’s mouth, that might be different, but if it hit their armor? Reluctantly, he shook his head.

“I don’t think so, Paige. Grenades were anti-people weapons, right? You could shred some people if they were bunched up with one of these, but not a monster. Ironic, huh?”

He glanced up. Paige shook her head slowly. Slowly, she bent and reached for the second sack, the much larger one.

“I was afraid you’d say that. Okay. In that case, I’ve made this.”

This time she pulled out a bomb. Daly recoiled; this wasn’t a grenade. It was a bit smaller than a basketball, with an iron outer shell and a wick. It looked like a bomb from a cartoon, but the way Paige held it, and the look on her face…

“You carried that around?”

“What am I supposed to do, cart it? And if you use this—if anyone does, they have to stand some bouncing. I’m going to light this, so you and I need to run at least a hundred feet out of the trees. See this fuse?”

She indicated the very long piece of string. Daly stared at it.

“A hundred feet? We won’t even see—”

“You don’t want to see it any closer. Believe me. You get back. I’m lighting this thing. I’ve filled this with shrapnel. A hundred feet out of the trees, at least. I’m running for two hundred, and you and I are staying close to the ground. There’s an incline over there; we take cover behind it.”

Paige set the bomb down. Daly hesitated. Then he turned and ran. He found the incline and, panting, crouched down behind it. He glanced up and saw Paige running after him. She tumbled over the rise of dirt and panted.

“Get down!”

She lay flat. Daly hesitated.

“Hold on, we’re far enough, aren’t—”

“Get down, you idiot! Or do you want to be hit! Cover your face and stay down! Shrapnel could still hit—”

Maybe this fuse was faster, or the run had taken longer than Daly thought. Either way, this time the explosion made his heart stop. It was so loud, he heard his ears ringing.

They had to have heard that in Talenqual! What if someone investigates?

Daly nearly got up, but Paige held him down. She waited for ten seconds. Only then did she get up.

“Let’s see.”

This time, the blast was hard to miss. As was the destruction. Daly stared at the shredded tree trunks, and then at a tree. It had fallen down, and he could see a few bits of metal embedded in the trunk. Shakily, he looked over at Paige.

“You could blow up a house with that! And you had that in your workshop?”

“I kept it locked away. But yes, I did. And you asked me to make this thing.”

That was true. But Daly still couldn’t believe it. He shook his head.

“You made a bomb? Just like that?”

She nodded. Paige looked around, but there weren’t any pieces of the bomb’s casing left to find on the ground. She slowly shook her head and bit her lip.

“I’m not happy about this, Daly. I know I said I could do it. But it was too easy to make. Once I had the ingredients, it took me three days of careful experimentation to figure out the right ratio of sulfur, saltpeter, and charcoal to make the gunpowder. I did some tests with containers. After that, I had a [Blacksmith] make a shell like this and bought some metal scrap. Daly, it took me less than a week to make this. Imagine what happens if Quallet got ahold of this? Or a larger company?”

“I had—I didn’t ask you to make one of these to sell, Paige. Geneva would kill me first. But we can use them.”

“You’re sure? After that, you’re sure you want one of these?”

Paige looked up questioningly. She stared hard at Daly. For a second, he hesitated. He understood what she was asking, why she’d shown him this in private. You want me to make more of these? And for a second, the decent part of him agreed with Paige. But…he looked around at the jungle and clenched a fist. Then he slowly replied to Paige.

“When we take on monster contracts, we have to weigh how dangerous our target is against the reward. We took a risk on the snakes, and we spent two days preparing and another scoping out the nest. We needed ropes, we had to team up with the Rustless Guard…and it was still closer than I’d like. Those snakes are the baddest thing we can take on. Give us some of these and we can take on almost anything.”

He kicked at the blown up earth. Paige just stared at him.

“You want to bomb monsters?”

“You want me to fight them with crossbows and swords? Paige, maybe the Bushrangers shouldn’t earn money like we do. But aside from Luan and Geneva, we’re the only source of income the company has. And after seeing some of the monsters we fight, I think adventurers are needed. I don’t think this world needs bombs. Especially not Baleros. But give me one of these and no one can copy it, right?”

“Not unless you don’t use it.”

Paige folded her arms, deeply troubled. She stared again at Daly.

“You really want more?”

He closed his eyes and nodded.

“I asked. And I think…yeah, I think we do need them, Paige. You saw the snakes we brought in, didn’t you?”

“I saw parts of them.”

“Well, they were a lot bigger in person. Say we go up against them again. I’d like to use these. Just our team. Just when we have to. We don’t show them around, we only bring them when we know there’s a fight that involves them. Deal?”

He saw the [Engineer] nod.

“Agreed. No one gets these, no matter what.”

“And with that said…I want three of them. Make sure they’re sealed perfectly. I don’t want a chance of them going off.”

“Three. You want three? I can do that. I can do it. But I need more ingredients.”

Paige scrubbed at her hair distractedly. She looked at Daly. Then she shook her head.

“I suppose you still want the ballistae, too. Or those oversized crossbows you were thinking of?”

“The big ones? Yeah. If we can mount it, or use a stand, we could pierce even the serpent’s hide. What, can you make them?”

For a second, Daly wondered if that was an out. But Paige shook her head.

“I was talking with Blake. Apparently ballistae were made with something called torsional force. As opposed to draw force, like what we have with bows and the crossbows I’ve made.”

Daly raised his eyebrows.

“Okay? What does that mean?”

“It means they did something else. Blake said that he thought it involved skeins of rope or something, but he wasn’t sure.”

“How does he know all this stuff, anyways?”

“Video games. Apparently the models in some games are quite close to real life.”

“Huh. So he doesn’t know how this torsional thing works, though, right?”

“Nope. And I bet if I had a YouTube video I could build one from that. But no one’s downloaded a video on their phones, and the internet’s not exactly around. So until I can figure out how the Romans did it, I can’t build anything stronger.”

“Oh. Then I guess…”

Daly indicated the bombs. Paige nodded. She stared around the unnaturally quiet forest, and then gestured back at Talenqual.

“We should probably head back. They might try and see what that sound was.”

“Of course.”

But neither Human moved right away. Paige kept staring at Daly. At last, she spoke.

“You know, I was really hoping you’d see what the bombs did and say ‘No, don’t make any more, Paige. Absolutely not.’”

Daly’s heart twisted in his chest. He held out his hands helplessly.

“Paige. We need those.”

She rounded on him.

“Do we? Do we really need those?”

Her finger shook as she pointed back at the blast zone.

“Daly. I feel like I’m a terrorist. Look at that. You want me to make more of those?”

Daly nodded. Paige halted and stared at him, but he pointed back at the explosion. And this time, he wasn’t as scared of the weapon as before. He was remembering something else.

“Ever seen a [Fireball] explode? It’s just as nasty. Worse. Remember the battle between those companies? They were throwing around spells like that. And some monsters can take a [Fireball] to the face and keep on coming. Those serpents could. If we want to hit Gold-rank, or go any further, we’ll need those, Paige. We’ll use gunpowder on monsters.”

“So long as it’s just monsters.”

She stared at him. Then she turned her back and began walking away. Daly followed her.

“Paige, I swear, if I thought—”

“Don’t. You convinced me, Daly. Don’t justify it.”

He fell silent. The two walked on, pausing to hide as a group of [Guardsmen] did indeed pass them by, looking for the source of the sound. After that, Paige and Daly went back to the main road and pretended to be coming back to Talenqual. They walked together in silence, and the triumph of this morning felt like a long way away to Daly.

Good news and bad. Daly walked back to his bed, and Paige said nothing else. He was troubled, like her. But they needed an edge. And if that meant making bombs…he fell asleep, wondering if he’d said the right thing.



——



The next day, Daly woke up, ate food, lounged about, and did things he forgot about five minutes later. Around midmorning, he found the Bushrangers relaxing after their big job and ordered them into the living room. It was time for a lesson. Siri was in charge with Tofte helping her. They got ten minutes in when Dawson looked up and complained loudly.

“Daly. I have to ask. Why do we have to study another language in a world that speaks only fucking English?”

He glared at the alphabet Siri had written down for them in her native language. Daly sighed, but he explained as patiently as possible.

“We have two Swedish speakers, Dawson. If we need to talk when the enemy might be around, or warn each other, another language is perfect. It could be a huge advantage. That’s also why we have hand signals and need to be able to write in Swedish too. We can leave each other messages.”

“And why’s it got to be Swedish? Can’t it be pig latin? Or something easier? No offense, Siri.”

“Offense taken.”

Daly waved a hand for silence. He frowned as he replied.

“I thought about Japanese, or one of the languages Kirana and the other girls speak, but apparently there is a nation of islanders about that speak some kind of weird language. Drathians. They sound Japanese, so that’s out. And Siri and Tofte already know the lingo; this makes the most sense. Plus, it’ll help because Sweden isn’t that big a country, so the odds of running into another Swede are a lot lower than someone from India.”

“What does that—”

Dawson was frowning, but Siri looked sharply at Daly. She replied for him.

“He means if we have to go up against people from Earth.”

The Bushrangers fell silent. Daly saw some of them look at each other uncomfortably. Dawson swore.

“Fucking hell, mate. What are you planning?”

Daly’s voice was cold in his own ears.

“Nothing. But I’m preparing us for everything. You heard Blake and his lot’s story about the [Bandits], right? We need to be careful. From now on, any hint of survivors from earth, we investigate cautiously. We watch them before we take them in, and we put people on them for the first month.”

“Jeeze, Daly.”

“It’s what we have to do. It’s not a question of ‘if’ we’re going to run up against some nasty people from home, it’s ‘when’. Or do you want to be the idiots who get stabbed in the back? Don’t worry, though; we’re already looking into buying amulets enchanted with [Detect Lies] along with getting a [Repair] spell.”

That didn’t cheer up the group much. But they did sit still as Siri went over the alphabet and a few basic words. Daly didn’t have the heart to push them to learn more than a few words despite his speech; but he did warn them they’d need to remember.

“Siri’s going to ask you, and so will I. Just remember the words for now. Got it?”

The others nodded. Dawson looked very uncomfortable. So did everyone else. Siri was frowning at Daly. She’d been the one to suggest using Swedish, but she seemed curious. She drew Daly aside as the others began to get back to lazing about. But she never got a chance to ask her question because the door blew open and Michael burst into the room, shouting.

“Luan’s back!”

Daly whirled about, his spirits suddenly rising. He heard an oath from upstairs, and Paige appeared in the stairwell. Kirana rushed out of the kitchen, and more members of the United Nations company rushed down the stairs.

“You serious, Michael?”

“I just saw him! He’s coming into the docks! Come on, let’s go greet him!”

“Alright!”

Dawson was on his feet. The Bushrangers all got up, but Siri and Tofte, both of whom didn’t really know Luan, weren’t as excited as the others. She looked at Daly with a big frown.

“Why are we running to meet him like children?”

Daly paused, about to go out after the others. He beckoned at Siri, and she and the rest of the team followed him. The [Axe Warrior] spoke as he led them in a brisk walk.

“Look, we’ve got three big leaders. Geneva, Ken, and Luan.”

“And you and Paige.”

Aldenon interjected. Daly hesitated.

“Well, yeah, but they were the original three, you know? The ones who started it all. And they’re all…well, look at it this way.”

He tried to explain to Siri, who was raising both eyebrows skeptically.

“Ken’s a nice guy. Everyone likes Ken, but that’s his thing. He’s not scarily good at what he does like Geneva or Luan. And Geneva’s amazing, no question; no one can do what she can in this world. But she’s…”

Daly hesitated and looked at the Australian members of his team for help. They pitched in cheerfully.

“Depressing?”

“Too serious all the time?”

“Got a medically implanted stick up her butt?”

“Distractingly hot?”

Daly rolled his eyes as the others laughed.

“Thanks, Kami. What I mean, Siri, Tofte, is that Geneva’s good, but she’s doing something she’s learned. She’s smarter than any [Doctor] in this world. But Luan? He’s genuinely just…better. At rowing. You know? He can do what Centaurs, Dullahans, Lizardfolk, all of them can do, but he’s the best, never mind if they have magic or special abilities. You remember Humans can do things better than the other species when you’re around him. And he always comes back with a lot of gold.”

They thought about that. Siri shrugged.

“Gold’s a good enough reason for me. Let’s go.”

And so they did. Daly reached the harbor docks just in time to see Luan finishing paying the [Harbormaster]—it wasn’t hard to spot where he was; a good number of Humans were standing around him, and the tall [Rower] was laughing and trying to answer a dozen questions at once. He looked good. Tired, but good. And then Daly saw just how tired and pushed his way through. His was the voice of authority.

“Alright, give Luan some space!”

The others drew back reluctantly. Luan turned. He grabbed Daly’s arm, and the two hugged briefly. Daly was grinning, and Luan had a weary smile on his face. Genuine, but very tired.

“Luan, mate, I missed you two weeks back when you dropped off a ton of gold. You didn’t even stay a full day! You’re pushing yourself too hard!”

“Hah. Well, I’m back now, aren’t I? Sorry I didn’t send a [Message]—I just finished a three-day trip. Hello, everyone! Paige, Kirana, and…are there new faces around here? Have we new people?”

Luan had spotted Nicoletta in the crowd along with Blake. He began to walk forwards as Daly started to explain, but then he stumbled. He caught himself and shook his head as Daly reached out to steady him.

“Sorry. I don’t have my ground legs yet.”

He smiled, but Daly was instantly concerned. He gestured at Luan’s face.

“You’ve got bags under your eyes, mate. And you’re swaying where you stand.”

Luan stopped.

“No, I’m not.”

He yawned hugely. Daly looked at him and Paige folded her arms. The South African man hesitated, then gave them a sheepish grin.

“Okay, I know. But offers are coming in faster than ever. People are hearing about ‘Luan the Rower’ and I can make enough to keep us afloat. I’m faster than anyone but a Courier on the water, and I can take the riskier deliveries because it’s so hard to catch me…”

He yawned hugely again. Paige shook her head as she looked Luan up and down.

“No more deliveries right now, Luan. You’re staying put and getting some rest. No rowing for at least four days. The doc’ll back me up on this one.”

He hesitated and then nodded slowly.

“I could do with some sleep. I’ve been—”

He yawned a third time and brought his right arm up. Daly saw a flash of bright color and stared. There was something on the inside of Luan’s arm. No…not something.

Gold, tattooed into dark skin. It shone as Daly stared at it. Two names.

Nandi. Lubanzi.

Luan lowered his arm and saw Daly’s stare. He didn’t hide the tattoos; rather, he held out his arm so Daly could get a better look. His smile was bitter, sad, but mainly just tired.

“I’ve been pushing myself harder. It helps me stop thinking. But I don’t forget anymore.”

Daly hesitated. Paige stepped in for him, grabbing Luan’s arm and placing it around her shoulder. She was shorter than he was, so there wasn’t really much for Luan to lean on, but it made him smile.

“Come on. Aiko’s worried sick about you.”

Daly nodded. He turned and waved a hand.

“We all are. Hey, you lot. Grab that boat-kayak and bring it with us. We can fit it somewhere in headquarters; better than paying rent on it.”

Several of the Bushrangers grabbed the boat and lifted it out of the water. Luan looked surprised.

“You sure there’s room? Also, it’s called a scull. It’s a single scull…I need to upgrade it. If we can afford a bag of holding, I can get a new one—it’s not a kayak, Daly. I’ll have to hurt you if you say that again.”

“Yeah, yeah. We can talk about that. We’ve got tons of money, so I guess you can use some of what you’ve earned…this way. Hey Siri, nali-stick? Or just a stamina potion.”

Siri disappeared and came back with one of the sweet sticks and offered it to Luan. He thanked her and bit into it. The sweet rush of sugar perked Luan up enough that he was walking steadily by the time they reached the United Nations company headquarters.

“What is this?”

He blinked up at the building, realizing for the first time that they weren’t at the old headquarters. Daly grinned hugely.

“You didn’t know? We’ve upgraded, Luan! Miss Hastel gave these two buildings to us for a song, and we’re looking into a third next door! Come on inside; it’s a lot nicer! And we’ve got proper couches!”

“If I sit down in one, I’ll fall asleep.”

Luan joked as he came inside. But he didn’t fall asleep; the crowd gathered around him was probably part of that, as was the reheated snake meat. He ate it ravenously as he tried to speak about where he’d been and gone.

“I’ve been to several big cities—this is good, what is it?—and seen a lot of wonderful things. Some danger. There was this group of [Sea Raiders]—but I’ll tell you later.”

“What cities did you see, Luan? Come on, tell us!”

One of the younger members of the company, barely fifteen, was practically hopping with excitement. Luan smiled.

“Tell you? I borrowed a smartphone. I can show you.”

He pulled out a phone out of his pocket. The others immediately fought for it until Paige ordered them to stop fighting before they broke it. There was only a small charge left, but it was enough for a few minutes of browsing. Daly craned his neck to see as the others exclaimed over it.

“Whoa! What a city!”

“Is that a dancing Lizardwoman?”

“And a dancing Centaur? I didn’t know they danced!”

Luan nodded.

“They were having some kind of festival. I have a few videos too. And a few pictures of some shops, potions…I tried sneaking a picture of a spellbook when I was browsing, but, well…look.”

He showed the others a picture of a book. But the page was…white. Not blank; it was pure, eye-searingly white as Daly stared at the photo. Only after he’d looked away did he see a faint coloration to the painfully white photo. Luan gestured to it and shook his head.

“It’s like this with videos too. You can sort of see some colors, but the pages just turn white. Some spells look different on screen, too. Some are invisible or different colors than what I see.”

“Maybe the pixels can’t represent the full color scale. Damn. It was worth a shot.”

Paige was disappointed. A few seconds later, the phone died, so she went and had someone get it charged with a [Repair] spell. She also chased off some of the crowd, telling them Luan would relate more stories over dinner. Daly was all set to bring Luan up to a room for some needed rest, but the athlete asked for some strong tea instead.

“I should stay up. I do have something I need to tell you, as well as stories. And you have something to tell me, it seems!”

He gave Daly and Paige a short and meaningful look both understood. Then he listened attentively as the others told him about the battle with the giant snakes, Geneva’s delivery of Miss Hastel’s baby, and their new home. He’d heard some of it the first time, but he hadn’t stayed long. And by the time the story was done, even Geneva had come back to greet Luan.

“You did all that by yourself? I have nothing but respect.”

Luan looked at Geneva. She smiled faintly at him.

“It’s just my job. Good to see you, Luan. You need sleep.”

He sighed, but gently.

“In a bit. I want to know more about your new clinic. You say you’ve been getting patients? That’s exactly what we wanted, isn’t it? And what about delivering babies? Is it profitable? Do you have many clients?”

Aiko nodded excitedly.

“She’s done eight Caesareans so far. A lot of mothers are worried about giving birth, or they have complications…one even came from fifty miles away when she heard there was a [Doctor] here. Word is spreading like lightning!”

She gestured at Geneva proudly as the [Doctor] coughed, embarrassed.

“Funny. A [Doctor]’s only popular on the battlefield. But [Midwives] and mothers gossip a lot faster and wider.”

Paige looked amused. Aiko smiled.

“And I helped! I know how to do a lot for mothers. But it is new! And scary! It is hard to deliver babies well across other species; their bodies are all different. And the last delivery was frightening! Geneva delivered the baby and then…the head fell off! Geneva was so shocked, and everyone panicked but the mother! Because it was a Dullahan baby, you see?”

“That wasn’t funny.”

Geneva shuddered as she remembered that moment. Everyone else was laughing. Luan closed his eyes, a broad smile on his face.

“That’s wonderful. It really is.”

Daly thought he might not open his eyes and fall asleep just like that. He coughed, trying to think of something else to say. His eyes went back to the gold writing on Luan’s arm.

“So, Luan. About your tattoo. Aiko told us about what you two had figured out. and we’ve confirmed it. No one remembers home unless we really try. Our family, our friends…it’s like a blank spot in our heads. We remember tech and politics and everything else. But we don’t feel nostalgic unless we try to remember.”

Daly looked around and realized everyone had gone silent. For a moment, they remembered home, and the smiles went from everyone’s faces. Paige elbowed Daly hard in the stomach.

“Nice going, Daly.”

Luan opened his eyes. He nodded heavily.

“I’m glad I’m not the only one. I thought…well, we can talk about it later. But I think I’m actually falling asleep right here. I take it back. Can I get a few hours’ sleep before dinner?”

“Of course.”

Instantly, everyone was solicitous. Luan went upstairs and fell asleep immediately after putting his head down. Daly walked outside with Geneva as the others talked, the phone having come back so they could look at more pictures again. He stood outside as the [Doctor] stood with him. Both were uncomfortable together. Geneva broke the silence with all the grace of a beached whale.

“It’s surprising you brought up the tattoos. I thought it was my job to depress everyone.”

He glanced sideways at her.

“That’s two jokes in two days. Careful, or we might think you’re Human after all, doc.”

She smiled at that.

“I do have a sense of humor. It’s just buried by experience. I’m working on it. Okasha’s not helping; her jokes are worse than mine are, if you can believe that.”

“Hey!”

Daly laughed. He stood outside with Geneva and glanced north. Last night flashed into his mind. He casually glanced to the side.

“Hey, Geneva. Paige was talking to me last night, and, uh…”

“Mister Daly? Miss Geneva?”

Someone interrupted them. Daly bit his tongue and looked around, annoyed. He stopped glaring as he saw a Naga approaching them. Like Xalandrass, the Naga was tall, sinuous, and stood out even in Talenqual’s busy and diverse streets. The Lizardfolk stood back respectfully as she stopped, her tail coiling around itself as she stood straighter. She smiled down at Daly and Geneva, both of whom looked up at her with surprise. Daly hesitated.

“How can we help you, Miss Naga?”

She smiled at him.

“I’m glad you asked! You can follow me. I was told to get two of your company, and you two are the leaders, aren’t you? Our boss especially wants to see you, Miss [Doctor].”

“Boss?”

The Naga nodded. She gestured down the street, pointing to the center of the city and the tallest, grandest buildings.

“That’s right. I’m part of the Featherfolk Brigade. And our leader wants to speak with the United Nation’s company leadership right now. Will you follow me?”



——



The Featherfolk Brigade. On the walk to the building that housed the company’s leadership, Daly tried to remember everything he could about them. He knew they were a company, mainly Lizardfolk, that had claimed Talenqual.

According to Ken, they weren’t the biggest players around, but they certainly weren’t small-timers either. They had the numbers and firepower to defend a large city—Ken had called them upper-middle tier, which meant they were way above a tiny company like the United Nations company, or even Quallet’s Gravetender’s Fist.

Normally, the two groups would never interact; if the Featherfolk Brigade took part in a conflict, one of their subdivisions would account for all of the United Nations’ personnel in a fight. But their leader had asked specifically to meet them. To meet Geneva.

Daly wished Ken were with them. But the Naga hadn’t let them get reinforcements. She’d asked, politely, that they come at once. But Daly had sensed it wasn’t really a request.

“What does your boss want with us, uh, Miss?”

The Naga turned her torso while she slithered forwards and gave Daly a smile. She had brilliant pink and red scales on her upper body, and she was practically naked except for a breast band.

“He wants to see you, of course. You’re a new company in our city. Why wouldn’t he be interested? And she’s the Last Light of Baleros. Don’t worry. He’s not angry at you. I think.”

Hardly encouraging. The Naga brought them to a huge, almost castle-like building with six floors that dominated the center of the city. It was a literal hub of activity, and Daly saw that it was both home for many of the company’s soldiers, an administrative building, and more.

Lizardfolk dominated the halls, but Daly saw a number of Nagas and even some other Lizardfolk evolutionary variants he couldn’t place. They stared at him as he passed, and he sensed very little hostility, only the Lizardfolk’s ever-present curiosity. But he couldn’t help but grow more tense; some of the warriors looked incredibly strong, and he was quite aware of how vulnerable he and Geneva were. He glanced over at the [Doctor], but saw she was walking as steadily as ever. He had to admire her cool. Or was it just indifference?

The Naga stopped at a pair of impressive, wooden double doors. She gestured towards them.

“Right inside. He’s waiting for you.”

There was no use waiting. Daly looked at Geneva and opened the doors for the both of them. The doors opened and revealed a room rather like an executive’s office. Only, this room was wide enough to make any CEO jealous, and there was, in fact, no glass front.

The office was open to the outside, and the city lay beneath! There were a pair of curtains that could be swept forwards, but walk too far and you would fall six stories down. Despite that, sitting on, or rather, around a comfortable cloth chair, was a Lizardfolk. Only, he wasn’t a Lizardman. And neither was he a Naga. He was…something else. Daly stared.

Where his arms should have been were two massive, beautiful plumed wings, the feathers changing from gold to green at the tips. The strange Lizardfolk’s body was a brilliant light green as well, with a softer beige underbelly. His scales looked like plates as he slowly slithered upright, and Daly realized the reason for the huge building; the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade was over seven feet tall as he drew himself upright, and that wasn’t even counting the rest of his tail wrapped around his desk and chair!

The stranger drew himself up as they entered, and his wings spread. When he spoke, his voice was lighter than Daly had expected, but still powerful and melodious at the same time.

“Good morning to you, Humans. You must be Daly of the United Nations company, and Geneva, the Last Light of Baleros. My name is Fezimet. I am the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. And before you ask, I’m a Quexal. You’ve probably never seen anyone like me, am I right? Tell me I’m right.”

He smiled widely, and Daly blinked as Fezimet waggled his resplendent wings. Daly immediately placed the Quexal as one of the vainer subtypes of Lizardfolk like Nagas and reacted accordingly.

“I haven’t! And it’s an honor to meet—did you say a Quexal? I’ve never even heard of your kind before. Incredible, isn’t it?”

He covertly nudged Geneva. She, like him, stared at Fezimet’s scales as the Quexal drew himself up, basking in their attention.

“Yes. Impressive.”

He laughed delightedly.

“You know something about Lizardfolk! That’s rare to see among Humans not from Baleros! Come closer. Sit, sit. Do you want something to eat? Drink? I have all of Talenqual’s finest delicacies to call on.”

“I’m fin—”

“We’ll have some, uh, Seamaster’s Gin and some shrimps if you’ll indulge us, Fezimet.”

“Of course! One moment.”

The Quexal reached for something on his desk. He didn’t have hands. His wing-arms seemed quite flexible, but his only true appendages for grasping were lower down, and they were a pair of long, bird-like legs. But they were incredibly dexterous; Fezimet delicately grasped a bell with the tips of his claws. He rang it gently, and he was clearly adept at using his appendages for humanoid tasks. Even so, it was disturbing on another level as well.

The door instantly opened, and Fezimet addressed the Lizardgirl and repeated Daly’s request. The Lizardgirl nodded and dashed off.

“Now, come, sit, sit. My desk has chairs for folk with feet and those without. Tell me, how have you enjoyed Talenqual this far? Are you well? Tell me everything.”

Daly and Geneva warily sat down. The Australian cleared his throat, but it was Geneva who spoke up.

“What do you want to know, glorious Fezimet?”

Both Daly and Fezimet started. But Geneva was smiling politely, friendly even. And her tone and the way she spoke—it was Okasha, Daly was certain. Fezimet hesitated, clearly thrown off-guard for a second.

“Well, I suppose I’d want to know if the legends are true. You are the famous Last Light of Baleros, aren’t you?”

Geneva-Okasha shrugged lightly.

“Some call me that. But I only participated in a few battles.”

Fezimet nodded knowingly.

“That’s all it takes. One or two to make a legend. Especially one so…unique. Would you mind telling me how you started? A [Doctor] is surely a rare class. What drew you to the battlefield?”

The [Doctor] raised an eyebrow.

“What else? Money?”

“Ah…”

“But I wanted to save lives as well. I did that. But I grew tired. If you’re asking how I came to join the United Nations company and form it, it was when I met some kinsmen from Terandria by chance. To begin with, I had joined with the Raverian Fighters…”

Not for the first time, Daly caught himself wondering at Okasha. And he was especially relieved that she was with Geneva in this situation; the Selphid spoke on Geneva’s behalf, acting enough like the [Doctor] to almost fool Daly, but smoothly giving Geneva a more sociable personality, and incorporating some lies with her story. Fezimet listened, asking a few questions, and the food Daly had requested seemed to appear in no time at all. The young man sipped from his drink and took a bit of the shrimp as Fezimet ate what might have been roasted rat, listening to Geneva’s story.

“And you decided to form a company. Well, I understand the reasoning; after two betrayals, why not stick with kin? Reasonable, reasonable. But after your company formed, why did you decide to come to my city?”

He stressed the ‘my’ a bit. Geneva paused. She glanced sideways at Daly and he jumped in.

“Well, we’d heard Talenqual was a very safe place. Very safe and prosperous, with everything you could want. Harbor, strong economy…why not work from here?”

The Quexal looked pleased at the answer.

“Hm! True, very true! But did you choose it because of my company?”

The Australian hesitated.

“No. Should we? We, uh, didn’t think to ask which company ran the city. We probably should have; I knew the Featherfolk Brigade was a mi—was an upper-tier company, but I’ve never heard of a Quexal before. What makes you…you, if you don’t mind me asking?”

The question received an arch smile in return.

“Ah, I see what you did there. But I’ll entertain it because you should know. You ask what a Quexal is? Feathers and scales. Wings, too.”

Fezimet spread his wings again. He seemed not to tire of keeping them open. He chuckled as he saw Geneva and Daly’s eyes go to his bright colors.

“Like all Lizardfolk, I was once one of my smaller kin. But I achieved this rare radiance for my unmatched abilities. Quexal are rare. Rarer than Lamias or Gorgons. There are few of us on Baleros, but those of us who remain are powerful. We do give up a lot. Hands, for one thing. But I don’t miss them. And yes, we can’t use swords that well, or other weapons, but most of us know some magic. I think it’s a requirement; I can blast my enemies from afar, but I prefer to crush them with my tail. Or bite them. It’s not hard.”

He smiled, and his serpentine face revealed a row of teeth that would probably take off Daly’s head in a single bite. The adventurer eyed the fangs: venomous, he had no doubt.

“Quexal are the fastest of the Lizardfolk evolutions, bar none. We can jump and even glide depending on the circumstances. We are mighty, and a Quexal has always led the Featherfolk Brigade. Hence the name. That answers your question. Now I have mine. What do you want to do in my city?”

This time Daly didn’t know what to say. He glanced at Geneva, but she was frowning, and Okasha must not have known how to respond. So Daly went for it.

“Honestly? We just want to find more of our friends from home, ah, glorious Fezimet. And we’d like to earn money ourselves. More than just enough to survive on.”

“Ah. So you aren’t planning on joining with Gravetender’s Fist? Are you intending to go to war? I hear the Bushrangers are quite capable. Will you expand your ranks? You’ve already made one alliance with the Rustless Guard.”

He knew a lot! Daly gulped.

“Not at all. We’re a part of the company, but most of us aren’t fighters. We got enough of a taste of action with Gravetender’s Fist.”

He thought he saw Fezimet relax a bit after hearing that. Did the Quexal have a [Detect Lies] spell or something?

“I see. And so your company wishes to make ends meet. To partake of the riches of my company’s city. Well, well. I suppose that’s acceptable. And you two don’t seem to be lying about that. But this [Doctor]’s business…”

He pondered for a moment before glancing at Geneva.

“I’m told you can deliver a baby free of complication by cutting a mother open, is that right?”

Geneva nodded slowly.

“I can do that. It’s not risk-free, but it’s less risky than a childbirth if there are complications.”

“Of course. But you know Lizardfolk don’t need to give birth? We lay eggs.”

Geneva shrugged slightly.

“Eggs can fail to hatch. Or something can go wrong inside. Nothing is perfect. My job is to try and save lives.”

She met Fezimet’s eyes calmly. The Quexal looked from her to Daly.

“I see. As noble as they claim. Well, I’m content with what I’ve heard. Your company has permission to remain in my city. You don’t seem like troublemakers or a threat, and you’ve saved at least one of my [Landladies]. As for your new…practice, I’ll send one of my Nagas over to watch sometime. Just to make sure it’s alright. Then we can talk about compensation.”

“Compensation?”

Daly hesitated. Fezimet smiled.

“For working in Talenqual, of course. After all, you knew it was such a glorious city when you came here, didn’t you? But let’s not talk about that. Eat more of those shrimps. I’ll have one myself. Now, tell me, Captain Daly, about your team. I hear they’re practically invisible in forests…”



——



Two hours later, Daly wished he hadn’t eaten so many shrimp. It wasn’t that they were undercooked; it was just that there was a limit to how many crustaceans he could eat. And he’d had too much gin. He should have asked for water and crackers.

“Steady.”

Geneva murmured as she helped guide Daly back down the street towards their headquarters. He erped and tried not to throw up.

“That damned feathery snake can drink like no one’s business. Think…we’ll be okay?”

“I think so. Hold on, Geneva. I’m helping your liver filter all this. You’re going to need to pee bad…let’s get Daly inside.”

She opened the door. Instantly there was a voice.

“They’re back! Get Paige!”

Daly found a few hands steadying him as he lurched inside. He went straight for the kitchen—not to throw up, but to drink some tea to settle his stomach. Then he drank more water, and looked at Paige.

“What happened? All the others said was that a Naga came and took both of you.”

She looked worried. Daly shook his head.

“It’s sorted. I think. Nothing big. Tell you later. We’re having a meeting tonight. Is Luan awake?”

“Not yet. We’re going to have lunch. Uh…”

“Pass.”

Daly spent the rest of the day slowly sobering up and trying to digest too many shrimps. He had an appetite by the time dinner rolled about, and Luan was up. They ate, and Daly listened to Luan’s stories without bringing up their encounter with Fezimet. Only after the dinner had ended did Paige stand up.

“Alright. The company leaders are meeting. Everyone else, you can talk to Luan later.”

“Aw!”

“Come on, what’s this about? Is it the Naga…?”

“We should be allowed to listen!”

Paige scowled at the protesters, who were all mostly older people around her age.

“No, and no. Some of what we have to talk about is potentially dangerous or…”

She glanced at Daly.

“…Or would be bad if it’s gossiped about. We’ll tell you everything we can. But later.”

“Who elected you?”

Someone grumbled that. Michael, probably. Paige opened her mouth, and Ken smiled.

“Should we have elections? I think it would be dangerous to make this a vote. After all, the responsibilities of our job are sometimes…a lot. And we cannot share everything, so if you wanted to vote for someone to listen with us…”

He trailed off. The murmurs fragmented, and most of the group shook their heads. That was Ken, framing the idea as not much of a solution at all. Daly lurched upstairs. The others found him with his head in his hands in their meeting room. Paige closed the door last. Luan yawned.

“You look worse than I do, Daly. What happened while I was out?”

“Too much to drink. We had to go meet the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. Fezimet the fucking glorious or something.”

The other’s gazes sharpened at once. Ken sat up, looking mildly worried. Paige sat down across from Daly.

“What did he want?”

Geneva frowned, and Okasha answered.

“I think he was scoping out our company. Trying to figure out if we’re a threat.”

“How?”

“Oh, you know. Taking control of parts of his city, sowing dissent, just whether or not we’re easy to work with…”

“Did you reassure him we’re no threat?”

Daly grimaced and shrugged.

“I tried. I think he bought the line that we’re only here to make money. But he hinted—strongly—that his company wants a cut of what Geneva’s doing.”

“Shit.”

“It’s just a tax. I think he was really curious about Geneva. But he’s…something. His company’s also massive. There were tons of Nagas and Gorgons—I wish Ken had been there. He might have figured out more of what Fezimet wanted. Okasha’s right. I think he was just trying to scope us. And he got me pretty good and drunk.”

“If he calls for us again, I will try and speak to him.”

Ken nodded. Aiko sighed, looking relieved.

“But it means it isn’t a problem, yes?”

“For now. But we’re getting heat from a big company. I guess that means we should keep an eye out to avoid pissing anyone off. Good work, Daly.”

Paige drummed her fingers on the table. Daly gave her a weak grin. He wasn’t drinking gin again for at least a month. Siri, who would have done well in his place, looked around with a frown.

“In that case, maybe we should listen to Luan. You said he had something to say?”

Luan nodded. He looked at Siri for a moment and then reached over.

“I think we’ve met. Paige told me you’re working with Daly? I’m Luan.”

“Siri. We met once. Briefly.”

He shook her hand.

“I’m a [Rower]. I’m aiming to be a Courier, but I’ll settle for a good position as a City Runner. And I’ve been working hard, perhaps too hard of late, but the money’s been coming in, and I’m glad it helped with…”

He gestured to the room around them. Paige nodded.

“We can start putting the money towards a better boat and gear for Daly’s team, Luan. We’re finally making more money than we need for the essentials. Which means you shouldn’t take so many risks. You brought in more gold than anyone by yourself at the start. You deserve at least a week’s rest.”

Everyone nodded at that. Luan smiled, but traced the gold ink on his arm.

“That’s good of you to say, Paige. But I have a job in three days I can’t get out of. Remember all that gold I dropped off two weeks back? Well, some of that was an advance payment. Listen, while I was getting my tattoo done in one of the cities, I met this Minotaur…”

Luan relayed the short meeting with Venaz to the others. Daly sat up, frowning and trying to think about why a [Strategist] would want to hire Luan for a delivery in three weeks.

“And he said it was all above-board?”

“He did. But I don’t know if I trust that. I did some digging, and I found out he is who he says he is. He’s a student in the school run by the Titan of Baleros himself.”

Several of the people sitting around the table drew in sharp breaths. The Titan of Baleros. One of the heads of the Four Great companies. And one of his students was hiring Luan? The [Rower] looked around the table.

“I’m committed. And I may not have had a [Detect Truth] stone, but I think this Venaz was telling me the truth. I could ruin his reputation, and what’s the point of me taking a really dangerous job without knowing?”

“Still, it’s suspicious. It sounds like you’re getting involved with something political, Luan. I don’t want you making enemies.”

He nodded.

“But I am committed, Paige. And I’m a City Runner; this is what we do. If anyone takes offense…well, I’ll be careful. I need to row out to my destination in two days. But I had a thought.”

He paused and drummed a hand on the table.

“…We’ve been looking for allies. Quallet’s company is one, and it sounds like Daly’s allied with a Dullahan team. But a Great Company has the resources to protect anyone they want. If this Venaz is a student of the Titan, perhaps he had connections. Perhaps I could meet with someone high up in that company. Talk to them about Geneva’s abilities. We were saying that a [Doctor] with her talents would be useful even to—no, especially to a big company who doesn’t want to lose valuable leaders, right?”

He looked around the table. Daly did too; Paige and Siri were frowning, Aiko was troubled, Geneva was pensive, and Ken was staring down at the table. Paige slowly replied.

“It’s true we were trying to get Geneva’s name out there, Luan. But that was before we discovered she could deliver babies. This way is safer. It doesn’t pull her into politics, and…”

She looked around. Aiko and Ken nodded, but Daly wasn’t so certain.

“Hold on, Paige. That’s true, but didn’t we just get warned by the Featherfolk Brigade? And our position isn’t that stable here. One bad war comes our way, and we need to run. It might be risky getting involved with a Great Company, but if the Forgotten Wing company’s decent—”

“Ken, what’s the Titan’s reputation?”

“Some are terrified of him, some respect him. Most agree he is honorable, but he is known for winning, sometimes in underhanded or sneaky ways. He is a formidable opponent. But it is said that he is generous, and his company is very good to the areas it controls.”

Ken looked around the table. Daly nodded a few times.

“Nothing ventured, nothing gained. Either we don’t use this and Luan does his job, or we take a risk. So here’s what I think.”

He took a deep breath and looked at Luan.

“If this Venaz guy really has a connection to one of the Great Companies of Baleros, try and exploit it, Luan. Try and mention Geneva. Who knows? Maybe this Titan guy will see the merit in a [Doctor]. I don’t know about C-sections. But it can’t hurt to try. And I hear he likes chess and Go, right? Aiko learned Go in Japan.”

“And we know Shogi. Perhaps we could interest him?”

Ken looked intrigued at the prospect. Paige was hesitant.

“Maybe. It could work. But I’m against it. Let’s put it to a vote.”

“I thought Ken just said—”

“I mean, among us.”

“Oh. Alright then, I’m for it. What do you think?”

The table slowly went around. Daly was for. Paige against. Ken put his vote in and after a moment of hesitation, Aiko disagreed. Siri hesitated, and in the space where she did, Luan nodded.

“I can take the blame if things go wrong. But I think—what’s the harm in trying? I will be very circumspect and get a feel for what it’s like. I may only meet this Venaz. And he’s hard to work with. I’d rather meet someone else, so we’ll see.”

That made up Siri’s mind. She nodded.

“I vote for too, then.”

“Me too. If nothing else, I can spread the word about diseases like this Yellow Rivers.”

Geneva quietly spoke up. One of her hands waved excitedly, and Geneva glared at it.

“Okasha says yes too, apparently.”

“That’s it, then. Three days from now, Luan does his delivery and tries to get our name out.”

Paige didn’t exactly look upset, but she did seem a bit worried. She glanced over at Luan.

“What’s happening in three days, then? Did this Minotaur say?”

“He hinted it had to do with something his teacher, the Titan, was putting on. But apparently it’s not dangerous…not really. I don’t know what that means, but the worst that will happen is that I’ll be caught, beaten ‘lightly’, and held for a day.”

Luan grimaced. Daly didn’t like the sound of that. Still, he had to admit it still sounded worth the risk. Fifty gold coins was a lot of money for a delivery.

“Well, that’s that. I think we can discuss the rest later. Luan, you clearly need more sleep. Let’s get some. Unless anyone else has something to add?”

Geneva took charge for once as she nodded at Luan, who was beginning to doze. He jerked upright and looked around. The others looked around and shook their heads. Only Daly and Paige hesitated. They locked eyes for a second and Daly felt the unspoken question coming from Paige.

Should we tell the others about the bombs now? Daly wasn’t sure, and Paige was hesitating. They both knew what the reaction would probably be, at least from Geneva. And yet, this was the leadership. The others deserved to know, but right now?

She looked at him apprehensively. Daly hesitated. But if they could keep it quiet—or if they could prevent anyone from learning how they did it…

Gold-rank. Money to buy Siri spellbooks, or fund a giant snake. A third building. Gold-rank, where Daly could actually buy artifacts for himself and magical wood to make crossbows that didn’t break. Gold-rank, where they could defend themselves from Quexals who thought they could lean on their company.

A way to fight anything and everything. Daly closed his eyes. And yet. ‘I feel like a terrorist.’ That was what Paige had said. And what would Geneva do? She would flip out.

He could still say it. It was only three easy words.

We’re making bombs.

They might even agree. They might not. But this was the moment at which he could reveal the truth and they could put a stop to it. She could put a stop to it. He looked up at Geneva and felt the words dancing on his tongue.

We’re making bombs. Is this right or wrong? We’re bringing weapons from our world to Baleros. Will it change anything? We’re making bombs. Should we stop?

We’re making bombs. Geneva, how do you feel about that?

It would be so easy. Daly looked up, across the table at his friends. At the [Doctor]. At Paige.

He didn’t say it. And neither did she.





6.21 D


“Hey. Did you do your homework today?”

“Of course. And it was a pain. What about you?”

“As if I’d turn up today without having done it.”

It was a curious phenomenon. An odd system. As immortal in its own way as mountains or geography. Somehow, despite magic and monsters and the passage of time, society still conspired to bring it about. And that strange thing was called school.

Worlds over, it was the same. As people progressed, as ideas became facts and theories and methods codified, institutions of learning would appear. Erin and Ryoka and those from her world knew of school as a part of life, but in other places, school wasn’t such a basic pillar of existence.

In Baleros, no, in the world, there were fewer places to learn. Oh, you could learn to swing a sword or hammer, or even pick up one of the more mentally challenging trades wherever you went. Apprenticeships were as common as dirt. But places where people sat in classrooms and learned from people whose sole job it was to teach? That was rare.

The Academy of Wistram. Belchan’s [Mage] Schools. The Draconae Scholarium of Fissival. To name but a few places. [Mages] had more colleges than any other class, perhaps owing to the complexity of magic. But there were other institutions that had been created that were just as notable.

For instance, the Walled City of Manus trained officers, leaders in the field. Terandrian kingdoms had training programs where [Squires] trained from a young age to become fully accredited [Knights]. Similarly, if you wanted to learn [Fencing], there were training schools there too. And if the life of an [Assassin] called to you, well, there were darker, private schools too. Places where children were trained in poison or forced to learn to become killers—or die in the process.

But all these places of learning, cruel or voluntary, prestigious or infamous, shared a commonality. They were schools, and there existed a relationship between teacher and student, class and pupils, that seldom existed anywhere else in the world.

Manus and Belchan taught magic and war, but some nations like Illivere taught everything, and that was rare. Where else could you wake up and know what your day was, if only in general? Where else was life systemized, learning turned into a process experienced en masse? Nowhere.

And still, some things were the same no matter where you went. Regardless of how hard it was to get into some schools, the great honor or privilege it was to have the money or talent to reach Wistram Academy or the libraries of Fissival, you’d meet students who showed up every day with their homework done, and those who clearly resented the effort. It was still a pain to be taught, for some, and they took little away despite the time spent.

Unless you liked what was being taught. Unless what was being taught mattered and your teacher was…a genius. One of the greatest authorities in the world. Then you showed up early, and you obviously did your homework. Because you had fought tooth and claw and nail to get here.

“Look. Here’s my homework.”

Marian yawned as she sleepily trotted towards the citadel from the city streets. She was holding a fang. It was huge, yellowed, jagged at the end, and as large as the Centauress’ arm. And around the base, despite the tooth having been cleaned, Umina could still see a bit of flesh. In short, it was a freshly acquired tooth, and the Lizardgirl hoped that whatever had owned the tooth was very dead. Or it would be quite, quite upset.

“Ooh. That’s nasty. What’s it from?”

“Guess.”

Marian smiled down at her companion. Umina was a Lizardgirl with pink-and-yellow scales, a pattern running from the violet frills around her neck to her long tail. Unlike Drakes, the Lizardfolk of Baleros were smaller, thinner, and possessed more vibrant scale patterns than Drakes, who were usually monochrome.

They had frills of skin around their necks, which could raise in moments of excitement, but were usually kept folded, a sign of their connection to their primitive relatives. And Lizardfolk were certainly unlike Drakes in that they were, by and large, much more friendly. They were laid back, cheerful, and enduringly social.

It was wrong to generalize, but Drakes were known to have inherited their ancestors’ greed, tempers, and snappishness as a whole. Whereas Lizardfolk like Umina were curious. The smaller Lizardgirl peered closely at the tooth as Marian held it lower.

The Centaur had to move slowly, and Umina had to hurry her steps for them to keep the same pace as they walked towards the citadel. The sun was still rising, and Umina yawned as she studied the ivory.

“It looks like…an Armorgator’s tooth? One of the giant alligators that lives in the water?”

“That’s right. I thought it was a crocodile, though. Aren’t they the same family?”

Umina shook her head. She blinked at the weight of the tooth as Marian handed it to her. The Lizardgirl whistled as she imagined the mouth that must have given up this tooth. If the tooth was the size of her elbow down to her claws…she imagined a twenty-foot-long beast lurking in one of the huge rivers of Baleros and shuddered.

“This is a boat killer alright. And it’s definitely an alligator, Marian. It could be a croc, but I can tell the difference. It doesn’t matter…crocodiles will eat you in both salt and freshwater.”

“Oh. I had no idea the two were even different species.”

“That’s because your people live on the plains. Far away from water. Trust me; the two species are different. Alligators and their kin aren’t nearly as aggressive as crocodiles. Although both are quite vicious, and if one got to be this big…I hope it’s dead.”

The Centaur smiled.

“It’s dead alright. I wouldn’t have dared bring this in unless it was. What, do you think I’d cheat?”

She tossed her head a bit, and her long hair flicked in the morning’s breeze. Much like a horse would toss their head. And the look Marian gave was slightly offended, even though she and Umina were fast friends. A Centaur’s pride, that. Umina shook her head instantly.

“Not at all. And I have my homework right here. Want to see?”

“Sure. What did you get?”

“This.”

The Lizardgirl fished in her belt pouch and offered up a handful of quills. Sharp, thin, and long. Umina could handle them with a bit of care due to the scales on her hands, but she cautioned Marian.

“Careful. They’re sharp.”

The Centaur took one look at them and snorted softly.

“Sorry, Umina. But are you serious? Those come from Scattershot Porcupines. Honestly…porcupines?”

“They’re a threat. And you know what the homework was.”

“I suppose. But…”

“Let’s just see what the Professor says.”

Umina refused to let Marian’s skepticism sway her. She put the quills back in her pouch as Marian took the tooth again. It was indeed an impressive trophy, but Umina wondered if the Centauress had understood the point of the Titan’s homework. What he wanted from you often differed from what he told you to do.

The Lizardgirl and Centaur trotted up the hill towards the palace. They were walking along the streets of the city that had been built beneath it. But the citadel was the thing. It was worthy of any [King], but it didn’t house royalty. Rather, it was the seat of power of one of the Four Great Companies of Baleros—the Forgotten Wing company. And it was also a school.

Soldiers were on duty at the open gates. But it was students, hundreds, who made up the foot traffic at this early hour. Some citizens too, but aside from the staff—and for a citadel of this size, there were a lot of employees—the streets mostly belonged to those who had come here to learn strategy from the world’s greatest expert on the subject.

Some of the city folk waved at Umina, especially the Lizardpeople; they were used to the sight of the students’ daily commute. And indeed, a lot of the business of the city was designed to cater to the students, from lodgings to inns to a very profitable business selling ink and paper. Umina and Marian waved back as they trotted into the academy.

Some of the other students noticed them, but aside from a few nods of acknowledgement, the pair was left alone. They were…different. And they headed to a different place than the other students. While a majority flowed towards some classrooms, or outside to the large training grounds reserved for students, Umina and Marian went up.

“I wonder how the others have done?”

Umina reached the third floor with Marian and headed straight for the end of the hall. The citadel was indeed a school, but it had reserved the lower floors for education. The higher floors were reserved for housing its inhabitants, war rooms, armories…and it was naturally off-limits to regular students. Go any higher and one of the guards would stop you. And the third floor was fairly empty too; only the advanced students ventured this high up. A room at the far end of the hall was Umina and Marian’s destination.

A small classroom with a lectern opened up for the Lizardgirl as she walked in, holding the door open for Marian. It was more of a lecture hall than a classroom, to be honest; a semi-circular set of raised seats, like slowly rising balconies, let the students look down on whoever was standing at the podium. The podium was absent of a teacher at the moment, and the students were clustered on the ground in front of the seats.

The best part of the Titan’s school for [Strategists] was that it was exactly not like school in all the right ways. Or at least, this class was. Umina looked around at the students gathered in the small classroom. There were just under fourteen of them. And like her and Marian, they had all shown up early. And they had all done their homework, or tried, at least. Some had clearly failed, but they had made their best effort.

That was because this school, the Titan’s school, wasn’t like other academies. It wasn’t Wistram, where the [Mage]-students were known to have outrageous parties, or other institutions like some of the Terandrian [Knight]-schools, which sometimes cropped up in the news with stories of disgraceful conduct by the would-be [Knights] as they turned from children into adults. No, this was a school that expected adults. You came here to learn, not to grow up. And if you didn’t apply yourself as hard as you could, you had better just leave.

That went double for this class. This group was infamous because it was the Titan’s private class. The one that followed him on campaign, that took daily lessons from him. Everyone who was here had either paid an outrageous sum or had won entry by being gifted beyond all the other students. Sometimes both. In the citadel with its population of eight hundred or so would-be [Strategists] at the moment, everyone in this class was recognizable on sight. Especially the ones who stood in the center of the room, talking quietly.

Venaz the Minotaur. Cameral, a Dullahan. Yerranola, the class’ only Selphid. And the Human from Terandria, Wil. Umina and Marian joined their group, along with Jekilt, a short Centaur with darker skin.

He was a [Commander] who’d enrolled in the school and was older than the other students by a decade. Even so, while he was with them, he was a [Strategist]. And he didn’t talk down to the six standing with him; they were equals, if not in age, then experience. Because this class was a competition, and all of the students, not just the seven, were competing to stand out.

“Morning, everyone. How was your homework?”

Marian yawned as she trotted forwards. It wasn’t a casual question either; it had been a week since she and Umina had seen the others. They had all been on the road for the last week. And their homework had been a rather impressive assignment. The others were bearing trophies like Marian’s tooth and Umina’s quills. Well, most of them.

“Naturally, I succeeded in my task.”

Venaz, the Minotaur, turned and snorted. He was holding a rather impressive pelt in his arms; it was huge and, as he unfurled it, Umina saw it was a huge bear’s hide. The Minotaur smiled smugly.

“Mossbear. My team eliminated it and two others. What of you, Marian?”

“Oh, I don’t know. All I have is this tooth.”

The Centauress smirked as she showed the giant Armorgator’s tooth. Umina smiled as Venaz’s triumphant look instantly turned crestfallen. That was Venaz. She looked around.

“Hi, Cameral. Yerranola.”

“Hello, Umina.”

The Dullahan nodded politely. He was holding a rather large mana core in his hands. Yerranola smiled. She was wearing a dead Lizardman’s body, but Umina thought of her as female. She waved a huge scale at Umina.

“What’s that you’ve got? Quills? My team managed to bag a giant carp or something. Not my best showing, but the Professor might not yank my head off for it. At least I have something. Better than poor Wil and Jekilt.”

She indicated the other two. Umina turned. Jekilt was pawing the ground restlessly. He flushed.

“You needn’t have spoken, Yerranola.”

“Don’t be mad. Jekilt.”

The Selphid teasingly smiled. She looked at Wil, and her smile wavered. The Human was staring at his crisply cut leather boots.

“Aw, don’t feel too bad, Wil.”

“I’m ashamed.”

He spoke quietly. Umina looked around. The other students had proof of their homework too, with one other exception. She looked at Wil and Jekilt.

“What’s wrong? Did your teams not finish their mission?”

“Mine quit. It was a sensible choice, but…a failure’s a failure. I regret choosing them now.”

Jekilt pawed the ground, annoyed. He glanced sympathetically at Wil.

“As for Wil…better he explains.”

“Wil?”

The young man shook his head. He was a [Lord], and as such—and because he was Human—he was more fully dressed and better dressed than anyone else in the room. Umina had noticed Humans liked to cover a lot of their bodies; compared to her light clothing or Cameral, who just wore his steel armor, Wil was fully dressed in a dark blue tunic and leggings that wouldn’t have been amiss at court. Whereas Marian and Jekilt only wore clothing on their upper bodies. And Venaz…well, he was dressed, but somehow, the Minotaur’s bare chest seemed as fitting as clothing for him. He was glaring at Marian as she needled him.

“Three Mossbears, Venaz? You could have done better, I’m sure. My Armorgator was over twenty feet long. More than enough to swallow a Mossbear whole, I bet.”

He snorted angrily. Yerranola rolled her eyes.

“They’re already getting into it before class.”

She looked at Umina. The Lizardgirl shrugged helplessly. Marian was her best friend in class, but the Centauress and Venaz got along like fire and oil. In that when you put them together, they tended to combust. Venaz snorted as he clenched one fist.

“If I’d been allowed to take part myself or lead the team—it’s quality that counts, Marian. Quality. You and I were both assigned Silver-rank teams.”

“And I did better. Come on, admit it.”

“The Professor will judge us. Where is he, anyways?”

“I saw him outside. We’re going to meet with him soon, I think. We just…”

Cameral cut off. The other students stirred as the door opened. A Centauress trotted into the room. But she wasn’t one of the students. She was in her mid-forties, had a pair of spectacles, a slight limp on her back right leg, and a scar on her right flank that reached down to said leg. But she moved swiftly, and the students immediately stopped talking and looked at her.

“Miss Perorn, good morning.”

Cameral and two of the Dullahans present immediately took off their heads and inclined them with their hands: a Dullahans’ bow. Marian and Jekilt inclined their torsos as well. Umina didn’t, but that was because there really was no need. It was just that the Dullahans felt the need to show courtesy and the Centaurs respected the teacher who’d just come in. Perorn, the Centauress, walked past the podium and turned.

“Good morning. I won’t keep you long. This morning’s class is cancelled as Lord Astoragon has another class to teach. A new group of potential students has arrived, and he intends to lead this morning’s class. Thus, you will leave your…homework…here and head straight down to the training grounds. I will inspect your results first, however. Please present your results if you have them, or give me a short verbal report in front of the class.”

She gestured at Venaz. The Minotaur immediately stepped forwards and showed her the Mossbear pelt.

“A trio of Mossbears. I contracted the Silver-rank team, Thunri Dwarves, to deal with them.”

Perorn had a clipboard. She noted down Venaz’s details swiftly.

“I see. Any casualties?”

“None.”

“Thank you. Please place the pelts…here. I suppose Niers—Lord Astoragon—will want to inspect them later.”

Perorn sighed and indicated a space behind the lectern with one hoof. Venaz placed his pelt down carefully, and Marian stepped up. Umina and the others got into line. She was near the end and noted Wil was right behind her. He looked downcast.

“It’ll be okay.”

“You haven’t heard what happened.”

“Next?”

The line moved fast; Perorn asked only for basic details. Umina showed her the quills.

“Scattershot Porcupines. I had the Bronze-rank team assignment.”

Venaz looked disbelievingly at the quills. Marian sighed, and Yerranola raised her brows. Umina knew how it looked. Scattershot Porcupines were not a threat. Oh, they could fire their quills, which turned the already dicey business of getting near a porcupine into a positive threat, but they were hardly able to kill in most cases. But Perorn only noted down the detail. She glanced up.

“I see. The name?”

“Uh…they didn’t have one.”

The Centauress paused. Her eyes flicked up to Umina, and a small smile crossed her stern face. She also had a scar running down one cheek, but it was nearly invisible except if you were up close. Healing potions usually covered most injuries anyways.

“Ah. I’ll note that. Next?”

Umina laid down her burden on top of Venaz's Mossbear pelt, which was being used to hold most of the trophies. She felt encouraged by Perorn’s smile; she might be right after all! Then she turned to watch Wil step up. He was, of course, empty-handed. Perorn gave him a severe look.

“Lord Kallinad, do you have anything to present?”

The young man flushed, and Umina winced as Wil Kallinad, one of the two Humans in this class, shook his head. He looked miserable, even more so than Jekilt and Yerranola had been.

“I do not, Strategist Perorn. The adventuring team I contacted failed during their mission.”

Perorn adjusted her spectacles as she stared down at Wil.

“To what extent?”

He hesitated.

“Six out of the nine adventurers perished, Miss Perorn.”

“Ooh.”

Umina’s gasp was part of the class’ groan. Marian leaned over.

“Wil was told to hire a Gold-rank team, wasn’t he?”

“Yeah. I guess they got beaten. The Professor’s going to chew him out about that!”

The Lizardgirl shuddered. Perorn stared at Wil, then made a short note on her paper.

“I see. Thank you. Well, that’s all for me. I’ll leave this here—”

She flicked the clipboard onto the lectern and turned.

“Follow me. I’ll take you down to Lord Astoragon. My class is on the way.”

She trotted out the door. The others followed her, abandoning the paper and quills they normally brought along. If they were going outside, notes would just get dirty. Umina walked after Marian. The Centauress and the other students formed a group that followed Perorn at a respectful distance. Marian looked slightly aghast.

“Miss Perorn came here just to take notes and lead us? Surely someone else could have done that. A [Servant] could have done the job!”

“She likes making sure things are done. Remember when we saw her taking over for one of the [Tacticians] one day?”

Umina shrugged. Marian grumbled as she trotted a hair faster.

“But still. It’s her. I know we have the Professor around all the time, but…her?”

The Lizardgirl nodded. She understood the feeling. She watched as Perorn trotted down the Centaur ramps as opposed to the narrower stairwell. Perorn was a teacher, but she didn’t have the [Teacher] class. Rather, she was one of the instructors that the Titan employed out of his own company; Perorn was a [Strategist] in the Forgotten Wing company, a figure of renown in her own right.

Umina had studied three of her campaigns in class—the Centauress was fifty-one, had slain over sixty enemy [Generals] and leaders in combat, fought for three years in Rhir against the Demons, and even taken down a small army of Trolls and other giant humanoids during the Mountainkin Incursions eight years back! If you knew [Strategists], you would know her name. Perorn Sadiluc, or, if you wanted her nickname, ‘Fleethoof’.

And here she was, teaching a class! But that was just how this school operated. It brought in famous [Strategists] to teach classes, rotating them in as these famous officers in the Forgotten Wing company returned from their duties for well-earned vacations. Sometimes one would stay to give a talk, or lead some students on a practical lesson for a day or two.

Other times they might be here for a month, or an entire season. And they were always battle-hardened veterans. And why not? The Forgotten Wing Company was filled with the best [Strategists] and warriors in all of Baleros. And the greatest [Strategist] of them all, Niers Astoragon, was the students’ main teacher! You sometimes forgot that.

On the way down, the small group of students passed by a few classrooms. These were far larger than the ones on the third floor and held many students, sometimes as many as a hundred. The teachers weren’t as illustrious as Perorn, but they were good at their jobs. Umina heard a shout as she passed by a room on the second floor; she stared inside and saw a Dullahan roaring at a room full of students.

“Today you’ll be learning how to direct specific units in the field in the midst of a battle. There are a number of ways to do it, but regardless if you’re using flags, horns, magic, drums, or any other signal, you must be able to signal everything from a squad to an entire battalion to maneuver, brace, engage the enemy, set up pikes, retreat—don’t bother writing this down! You need to have this memorized; no one’s letting you read your notes when a bunch of [Riders] are charging your left flank! There will be a test in three days, and if one of you misses a single basic order—”

She winced as she saw the students fumbling with their quills and rolls of parchment. Marian tsked softly as she stared into the lecture hall.

“They must be pretty new if they’re learning basic commands.”

“Maybe it’s an officer training course. Three days. Yikes. I remember having to learn horn calls and getting them confused with drums. Old Rustarmor there will chew them to bits and spit them out.”

Umina shook her head. She peered at the grizzled Dullahan, who had earned the semi-affectionate name ‘Rustarmor’ by his students. Despite his armor being free of rust; it was the dark red coloration he’d chosen to paint his armor that gave him the nickname, much to his displeasure.

Venaz snorted as he took one look into the room and tromped on by. The Minotaur was the tallest member of his class, bar none, and only Marian came close to his height.

“Idiots. If they can’t memorize the instructions in a day, why bother becoming [Strategists]? They’ll only be third-rate if they can’t even train their minds to memorize basic horn commands.”

His voice was deep and booming, and Umina winced as the Dullahan inside paused to glare at the passing students. Venaz didn’t lower his voice for anything. Marian slapped Venaz on the back as some of the students in the class rustled like offended ducks.

“Don’t be rude, Venaz. Some of the students are quite young. They can hear you when you insult them in public, you know.”

“Good. Next time I’ll raise my voice so all of them get the message. They came here to learn. This isn’t Wistram or some place to be coddled. I’m glad I’m taking part in the Professor’s instructional lesson with the new students. I enjoy this every time it happens.”

Venaz rubbed his hands together, grinning unpleasantly. Marian sighed, but turned and deliberately walked in front of Venaz, showing him her behind. He stepped out of her way, grunting irritably; the sound of both his and Marian’s hooves clicking on the floor was the only sound for a moment.

“So, anyone here read the latest installation of that [Strategist] from Liscor? You know, Olesm whatshisface?”

Umina spoke up brightly. Yerranola chuckled, and Cameral nodded.

“I paid for an early edition. Why? You read it too?”

“I got ahold of one. Just the [Message] spell; I hear there were maps, but I didn’t get sent one. Mind if I borrow it?”

“Oh, sure, sure. But I bet the Professor will have something to say when he reads it. Have you read it, you lot?”

The Selphid looked around. Venaz shook his head.

“I didn’t think it was worth paying for. Why? Has he included more chess strategies? The Professor’s only interested in that new game, Go, anyways.”

“He’s got chess and Go and something else. Actual strategy! He wrote his analysis of the Siege of Liscor.”

“Really?”

The other students looked around. They were, after all, [Strategists] as well. Yerranola grinned widely.

“Yep. But his analysis…I’m not going to say he’s wrong, but you have to read it. I’ve got a copy ready to show the Professor if he hasn’t read one yet.”

“I bet he has a copy himself. There’s no way he wouldn’t.”

“Yes, but he might not have read it yet. And let me tell you, when he does—”

“Just spit it out, Yerranola! Cameral, what does it say?”

The Dullahan was frowning.

“It was about Goblins. You see, this Olesm Swifttail seems to think that Goblins saved Liscor. He even went as far as to say they might actually be potential allies, not monsters. He cited several Hobgoblins and a tribe that—”

“He said what?”

Venaz’s voice made Perorn turned around. The [Strategist] glared at the Minotaur.

“Quiet. My class is up ahead. You all proceed down to meet Lord Astoragon. In silence.”

Her glare made the Minotaur flush. Perorn stepped into one of the advanced classes, and the rest of the students followed her, keeping silent until they reached the first floor. Then Venaz whirled on Cameral, Yerranola, and Umina.

“Someone wrote that? Show me the article. This is outrageous. If that idiot thinks—Goblins? I’ll write in myself to tell him how idiotic that notion is.”

Umina raised a placating claw.

“Don’t worry, Venaz. You’re not alone. I think half the [Strategists] on Izril will be kicking down his door, never mind the ones overseas. I don’t know what possessed this Drake to write it, though.”

Yerranola chuckled.

“I just want to see what the Professor says.”

Venaz calmed down a bit, but he stomped ahead, angrily muttering about idiots. Marian looked at Umina.

“You’re still keeping tabs on Liscor? Or just that chess magazine thing?”

The Lizardgirl swished her tail idly. She noticed some of the others looking at her sidelong.

“Just a bit about Liscor. The Professor did have his big lecture on the siege, remember? And there’s that dungeon…mind you, I’m more interested in Chandrar at the moment. Remember the King of Destruction’s announcement a few days back? Now that’s going to be huge news. I bet the Professor brings it up first.”

The others nodded, and Umina sighed internally as they began to discuss the dramatic events from a moment back. War in Chandrar. But that was normal. Liscor on the other hand…she noticed Marian smiling at her and pretended nonchalance.

That was the thing. Marian was her best friend, but they were still students competing to be…well, the best. Umina would graduate from Niers’ school sometime, and hopefully it would never happen, but maybe she’d one day face Yerranola across the battlefield. Or Marian. Or…anyone.

Even Niers Astoragon himself. This was school, but it didn’t mean life stopped. Umina was already trying to get any advantage she could for when she graduated, and a hint about the Titan’s interest in Liscor—or an inn—was an advantage Umina wanted to keep to herself.

She didn’t want to ever face Marian in a situation that meant life or death. But some secrets were secret. Yerranola rubbed her hands together as they arrived.

“And here we are. Looks like Miss Perorn was right. It’s a new class of students.”

The group of students reached the outside at last. The first thing Umina saw was a large collection of people, lined up in the morning sun and on the slightly muddy cleared area that was used for practice skirmishes and other activities.

They were Lizardfolk, Dullahans, Centaurs, but also species from across the world. Humans of course, but Drakes, Gnolls, even a Garuda! Half-Elves, no Dwarves, but that was hardly surprising…Umina didn’t see any Gazers either, but the assembled students accounted for most of the world’s species.

“New students. I forgot this was the time the Professor accepted new students. Damn. I hope they don’t take up too much time.”

Jekilt looked annoyed by the group. Umina got why; they were new applicants to the Titans’ school. They’d paid to come here and receive lessons, but most probably had only a few levels in the [Strategist] class. They might aspire to be [Lieutenants], [Generals], [Strategists], or what have you, but they’d come here green as grass, and that meant they’d be wandering around, asking stupid questions, and most importantly, getting in the way. But Umina was sympathetic.

“We’ve all been there, Jekilt. Except you, I guess; you were a [Captain] when you got here. But they’ll learn soon enough.”

The Centaur snorted.

“That’s not what bothers me. It’s the arrogance. Especially from the young stallions, Humans, and those Drakes.”

“Hey.”

Kissilt, one of the Drakes in the class, protested mildly. Jekilt looked at him.

“You disagree? Your lot strides in and thinks that you know everything. I’m not saying Drakes are the worst; Centaurs are just as bad. But those Humans…”

“True.”

The Drake looked mollified. Wil, one of two Humans in the group, blushed a bit as the others looked at him.

“I can’t defend that. But it’s not fair to say all Humans, Jekilt. It’s Terandrian nobility I’m afraid you’re thinking of. That includes me.”

“But we like you.”

Yerranola threw an arm around Wil’s shoulders. He shuddered because the Selphid’s hug was literally like being hugged by a corpse.

“Thanks, Yerra. But I’ll admit a lot of the Terandrian aristocracy doesn’t handle Baleros well. Especially, uh, dealing with non-Humans.”

“You Humans.”

Jekilt snorted again and pawed the ground, but Marian cut in.

“How many are from Terandria, Wil? I can’t tell.”

She cast an eye at the Humans waiting about in the sun. There were a lot of young people, some as young as…sixteen? The bulk were younger than thirty, and there were only a few as old as Jekilt, career soldiers perhaps who had the money to pay for lessons. Most of the Humans were young, in their early twenties or late teens.

Umina tried to guess how many were Terandrian as well, but aside from the quality of clothes, it was an enigma to her too. Wil was more experienced and ran a quick eye across the group before shrugging.

“Looks like your usual lot. I see at least a dozen applicants from Terandria. There might even be a member of a royal family.”

“Really? Where?”

The students stared at the young man Wil pointed out. Umina caught a sharp nose, a quickly turning head…the Human in question was shorter and slimmer of stature, more like a Lizardfolk. Wil grimaced.

“That might be the son of Taligrit’s royal family. Third [Prince]. I don’t know.”

“Your people pop out so many heirs…”

“Well, it’s an advantage, isn’t it?”

“Only if they level. How much better is a [Prince] than a [Lord] at Level 10?”

“Why are we waiting about? Where’s the Professor?”

“Bet he’s going for a showy entrance. And why did he want us to come down here?”

“It’s the usual, the usual, remember?”

“Oh.”

Umina’s eyes widened with some of the others. So that was—then she heard a blare of trumpets. Her head turned with all of her class and the new students. And that was when she saw him.

Or rather, she saw the [Servant] carrying him. It was a Selphid who bore a large platform, really an elevated table with a small top, nearly six feet high. And Umina was too far away to see, but standing on top of that table was a figure. The new students stared at the table, and then as it grew closer, they blinked as they saw it had an occupant.

Yes, here he was. The Titan of Baleros. At first the students stared. Then, some of them, especially the ones not native to Baleros, began to snigger. The older new students, especially those who looked like actual soldiers, didn’t laugh. The others clearly thought this was a joke.

The Titan of Baleros! That was who they had come to see. It was for him they’d sailed, sometimes across the world, to learn from! And what was this? A Fraerling? One of the tiny folk? But he was called the Titan of Baleros. And it was him standing on that platform.

What all the stories usually forgot to mention was that the Titan of Baleros was a Fraerling. The smallest people in the world; only half a foot tall. He looked like a Human, except shrunk down; standing and addressing this new class, he was barely visible from a distance. Niers Astoragon even had to use a voice-amplifying artifact for his words to be heard by those in the back.

“Good morning!”

The students stopped laughing. Some looked up. Niers Astoragon, second-in-command of the Forgotten Wing company, the Titan of Baleros, and the Professor as he was known by his students, waved a hand.

“Silence, please. Yes, I apologize for the delay. However, we’re ready to begin. If you’ve just arrived, let me introduce myself. I am Niers Astoragon. The Titan of Baleros as some know me. You will know me as your teacher for however long you’re enrolled in my school.”

There were some chuckles from the audience, but the rest had caught on, and some were staring. They were realizing that, no, this wasn’t a joke. This little fellow…was the Titan? Really? Umina watched their expressions. Niers went on.

“I realize some of you are tired from your travel. We have students from other continents. However, as is customary, you will all receive your first lesson here. You have all come to learn from my school. To become [Strategists], or simply achieve an officer’s class. I intend to start you on that process now. With a brief combat exercise. You’ve been issued helmets and weapons, haven’t you?”

Umina saw the students had yellow helmets; some had placed them on the muddy ground, which was a mistake. And they were wearing armor and holding weapons…some raised them now. The Fraerling might have nodded, but few people saw.

“Excellent! In that case, we’ll begin. You may know that my school has a reputation for mock combat exercises. You will all take part in them as you study here and even experience this fake combat yourselves. I intend to provide you with a little sample of said combat, although I myself will not participate directly. As you can see, helmets do little for me.”

There was a laugh from some of his audience. The Titan didn’t seem to mind. He cheerfully stood on his platform, and Umina felt a prickle on her scales. He was being too nice—when he’d done this to her group, two years ago—

“Some of you are soldiers, and some have even experienced battle a number of times. The rest of you come from places that might not have ever seen war. That changes today. You have all come here, some at great expense, I know. But if you cannot handle today’s first lesson, you will be sent back!”

The students stiffened. That was a departure from what they’d expected. But Niers’ voice cheerfully shouted on.

“I have only a few demands of you. But this lesson is one of them. You’ve heard it said that I can take anyone, anyone, and turn them into a [Strategist]? I can. But only if they have the will and drive to do it. If you lack that basis—there’s nothing I can do. If you can, my promise stands.”

He paused, and all the eyes fixed on him. Niers Astoragon spoke slowly.

“Five levels. If you are under Level 30, by the end of your training here, you will gain five levels. In a single year. That’s for the basic course where we hammer you into functional officers. If you stay for two years, four, or even six, you will emerge even better. That’s my promise. And I stand by it.”

The restless students standing in the muggy heat and sun went still. Five levels. In a year? Maybe if it was from Level 1 to Level 6, that would be a safe bet. But Level 20 to Level 25? But it was a common claim and one of the reasons why Niers’ school was so popular. The Titan’s voice floated through the air, calm and serious.

“I have raised [Strategists] out of [Farmhands]. I have made [Generals] out of people without even a level in [Soldier]. If you have the will, I will teach you. Make no mistake, it won’t be easy. But you can achieve any class you wish if you strive for it. Take a look to your left. You see that group there? That is my most senior class.”

The group of a hundred or so new students looked over at Wil, Umina, Marian, and the others who were waiting in the shade. Umina waved, as did Yerranola and some of the others; the rest just waited patiently. They’d heard this speech before. They’d stood through it. Niers pointed at them, a tiny shape standing on his dais.

“Regardless of how they entered, no one in my advanced class will exit below Level 30. If you have the aptitude, the talent, or just the drive, you may be inducted into their ranks, regardless of tuition. The coming months will determine if there are any of you who make that cut. But today we find out if any of you are going to stay. Venaz!”

He roared, and the new students jumped. The Fraerling turned towards Venaz. The Minotaur hadn’t moved.

“Professor?”

Niers pointed at him.

“Today’s lesson is one for the new students to see what battle is like. They should understand what the [Soldiers] experience when they are led into combat. Thus, I am giving you command of an army. The students will be part of your infantry; my soldiers will not be allowed to harm them! You will also receive training troops in excess of mine. Try to keep your side alive and defeat my army, will you?”

“As you wish, Professor!”

The Minotaur grinned hugely and strode forwards. Marian groaned, and Umina felt a prickle of disappointment. She wished she had been chosen. The new students stared as Venaz strode forwards. Then they looked around. They were going to be part of an army? And take part themselves? Umina saw the worry on the would-be [Prince]’s face until a young man next to him nudged him and said something reassuring. She saw the [Prince] nod, looking relieved. She could imagine what was being said.

The Titan—if he was the Titan—had said that they’d be fighting? But they weren’t allowed to be hurt. So what was the risk? They’d see combat, alright. Maybe show off some of their sword Skills! Most of the students seemed excited by the idea, as if they’d forgotten they were here to be [Strategists], not [Warriors]. Umina shook her head.

“Oh, you sweet, poor hatchlings.”

Yerranola nodded cheerfully.

“They’re dead. Let’s find somewhere to sit and watch. Anyone have something to drink? Oh, look! Here come the training soldiers! Wow, the Professor’s called out a lot of them!”

She pointed. Figures were marching onto the training grounds, holding weapons and wearing no armor save for a metal breastplate that covered only their chests. Umina recognized them at once.

Selphids. Umina watched with interest as some of the Terandrian and a few of the Izril and Chandrarian students recoiled from them. The pale-skinned warriors moved with as much grace as their living counterparts, but their bodies were dead. Some bore the fatal wounds they’d taken; the others were unmarked. But this was the army that formed up on either side of the field. Venaz eyed his command and shouted; he was far away from the watching students and Niers, but he had a field roar that made the students in front of him wince.

“Aren’t you underestimating me, Professor?”

“Not at all! Do your best, Venaz!”

Niers’ voice cheerfully came back. Umina saw a group of Selphids surround him, carrying halberds and spears. It was a familiar situation. Like Niers had said, they were engaging in a war game. With live soldiers.

Well, sort of.

The thing about [Strategists] was that you couldn’t teach experience. Playing games with boards and figures was fun and you could level, but Niers Astoragon promised to train experienced [Strategists] who actually knew how to lead. Which meant that he made his students command actual armies in battle. But what if there was no handy war to be had? Well, then he had his training squads.

Over a thousand [Soldiers], [Mercenaries], and even Bronze-rank adventurers found employment at the Titan’s school. It was cheap pay, and you might get bruised, but you could level up. Because you’d be issued with blunted weapons, and you’d fight in formation, obeying a [Strategist] or officer’s commands, but actually fighting your opponents. Bones would be broken as two sides fought in various terrain, flanking each other, demonstrating different tactics—people got hurt.

And if one side lost badly, there could be serious injuries. Usually it wasn’t bad, thanks to the practice weapons, but the Titan had let it be known that anyone who was hurt by accident would be healed with a healing potion or compensated for an unhealable injury. And despite the risk, there was no shortage of volunteers for his war games. It was better than getting hurt in actual combat.

Still, there were those more suited for fights than others. And Selphids were the perfect species for mock battles. After all, their bodies were dead. They lined up, cheerfully shouting greetings at the Professor or Venaz, taking their ease as they formed into distinct units to be commanded. Umina saw Niers directing his army as Venaz surveyed the units he’d been given.

The advanced students retreated to some stands that had been built to let people view the battlefield from a height. There were some regular citizens in the crowd; to the city folk, watching the Titan’s war-games was excellent, free entertainment. Niers’ students settled into a spot high up by themselves as they talked. Yerranola shaded her eyes as she stared down at the battlefield.

“I see what you mean, Jekilt. Those Humans and Drakes are giving my people a lot of dirty looks. Looks like none of them have ever seen a Selphid before.”

“To be fair, there are more Selphids on the field than I’ve seen in my entire life before now.”

Cameral commented placidly. Wil nodded. He was peering at the battlefield with a pair of enchanted spectacles. Umina nudged him, and he offered her them to look.

“Aside from the Eyes of Baleros, the Forgotten Wing company employs way more Selphids than any other major company. Especially because they’re so useful in training exercises.”

Marian snorted softly.

“Well, they’re going to be more use than those new students. They can take orders. Look at Venaz. See how angry he’s already getting trying to make them form up?”

She pointed. The Minotaur was indeed bellowing orders, and the Selphids were smoothly moving into place, but the students were a disorganized rabble. Jekilt shook his head.

“They might be a disadvantage unless Venaz gives them a simple order. At least they’ll slow the Professor’s troops down.”

“Hah. Do you think Venaz would give any other order?”

The others chuckled. Jekilt grinned.

“True. Umina, what’s the numbers on each side?”

The Lizardgirl called out as she surveyed Niers’ and Venaz’s sides, watching the formations change as both [Strategists] sized each other up.

“Forty [Crossbowmen], twenty [Riders], sixty [Soldiers], and a small command of about ten fighters including the Professor himself. Against that, we have…the students, which are about a hundred being protected by eighty [Soldiers]. Venaz also gets sixty riders and a personal command of about thirty plus himself.”

“Huh. So Venaz has a lot more numbers, and more [Riders], but no ranged. Sounds like your kind of matchup, Marian.”

“Probably why I’m not taking part. Unless the Professor’s going to use his Skills, he’ll be hard-pressed to keep those horses off his archers. Think Venaz will win?”

Marian frowned at the battlefield as she held out a hand for the spectacles. Wil shook his head steadily.

“He’s going to lose. It doesn’t matter that he has double the Professor’s numbers. The students he has are worthless, and the Professor’s got range on him.”

Umina frowned.

“You don’t know that, Wil. The Professor never sets up a battle against us he can’t lose. He says it’s no fun. If Venaz charges him with the [Riders] just right…”

“We’ll see. Oh, look. They’re starting!”

Yerranola pointed excitedly. One of the [Trumpeters] had blown a blaring call to arms. The audience in the bleachers sat forwards as both armies jumped into motion. The instant the horn blared, Venaz roared an order, and his [Riders] shot forwards. The infantry advanced, closing the few hundred feet at a walk at first, which would soon accelerate into a run. Marian made a disgusted sound.

“He’s just going for a charge. Look, he’s aiming straight at the Professor’s archers!”

“Hey, let me see! You’re right…but I mean, what else does he need to do? Hold on—look!”

The Selphid pointed excitedly. The crossbows in Niers’ army had instantly opened up, firing at the [Riders]. Umina saw the unit swerve to dodge as Venaz shouted; she wondered if he’d used a Skill or if their leader had just anticipated the bolts. The training soldiers were allowed some autonomy even with orders; they wouldn’t charge blindly into fake-death.

“Here they come! The Professor’s dropping a few, but…what’s he going to do? Is he pulling his infantry back, Yerra?”

“No. I don’t think—they’re advancing. And the riders are heading straight for—no, look! He’s sent his own riders in!”

The twenty mounted Selphids were charging straight at the sixty or so coming at them. Umina inhaled sharply. They were going to collide! Selphids or no, that many horses dying would be tragic! She saw Venaz pointing and shouting; he was giving the order to charge! Jekilt growled in disgust.

“Typical idiot—he’s going to lose half his riders and maim all those horses!”

“But he’ll get to the crossb—no! Look!”

Another volley of crossbow bolts flew up. Venaz's riders stumbled; Umina saw several stop in place. The riders didn’t tumble from their saddles as the bolts struck them; the bolts weren’t tipped with metal. Neither did the horses get hurt, despite the volley of projectiles.

The horses wore protective headgear, as did the riders. When the painted crossbow bolts struck them, the [Riders] would dismount if the horse ‘died’, or give up completely if the horse and rider were struck. And more were downed, but the rest were coming on; Niers’ crossbows were clearly being operated by people without [Archer] classes. Then Umina saw the horses swerve right, and then into Venaz's riders.

“Look at that! Here they go!”

Horses reared, and swords began flashing. The Selphids on horseback fought carefully, but Umina heard more than one animal cry out in pain. She felt for the horses, but the Selphids on horseback were taking each other to pieces. And Venaz's charge was fumbling. Half the riders had to turn to fight the ones attacking them. And the crossbows were reloading…the rest were coming on…

“They’re going to hit his archers! They’re—oh, look!”

Yerranola shot up in her seat. Wil plaintively called for the spectacles, but she was pointing, and everyone saw the sudden change in the crossbows as the forty Selphids tossed their weapons down, bent into the mud, and picked up something.

“Spears! It was a feint! They’re his infantry!”

Yerranola laughed as, suddenly, the cavalry found themselves heading right for a wall of pikes and spears. It was too late to turn back; riders were committed. Rather than actually hit the horses with the very real spears and pikes, though, the leader of Venaz's [Riders] slowed the charge. Umina heard a cry.

“Horses meet pikes! Casualties: total! Twelve pikes for Lord Astoragon fall!”

The ‘dead’ riders guided their mounts off the field. Meanwhile, Venaz's remaining riders had cleaned up Niers’ riders but found a group of pikes charging straight at them. They tried to disengage, but although they outran the pikes, they found the true archery unit had reclaimed their weapons. A volley picked off all but the stragglers, and they too exited the field.

Umina grinned with delight as she watched Venaz practically hopping with rage from his side of the battlefield. All throughout the stands, the audience was laughing, and some were heckling Venaz. Cameral was shaking his head with his hands.

“That fool. He should have noticed those were fake [Crossbowmen] the instant that first volley landed. He was gambling on the fact that the Professor wouldn’t expect a full-charge, but, of course, he did.”

“To be fair, if he hadn’t done that, Venaz would have forced the Professor to ward his archers and expose his command while his infantry got into range.”

Umina pointed out Niers’ command, from where the Fraerling was presumably issuing orders. Venaz's larger command was advancing now, with the rest of his infantry. Marian winced; the crossbows were reloading, and Niers’ infantry, just under fifty, were moving forwards in a line.

“Yikes. The Professor took out all of Venaz’s horse, but he’s still outnumbered two to one. Think those crossbows will even the odds?”

“He can get off at least three volleys…and he’s aiming for the regular soldiers. What do you think, Umina?”

The Lizardgirl watched as the crossbows volleyed the first rain of bolts at the students.

“I think Venaz is in trouble, numbers or not. His Selphids are falling like flies. And as for the students…remember what it’s like?”

Her classmates nodded. They watched as the infantry streamed across the field. They were a ragged formation, actually slowing down the Selphid [Soldiers] as the bolts rained down around them.

The new students raised their shields as the Selphid [Soldiers] around them screamed and shouted, advancing under the hail of crossbow bolts. They had helmets on, but—Umina remembered her first lesson vividly. You were advancing through the mud, with Selphids screaming in your ear as crossbow bolts fell around you. And they hurt! They were wooden bolts with powdered paint tied to cloth balls for tips, but that was still a painful strike if it got you between the armor.

But that wasn’t the scary part, oh no; she didn’t see any of the students running despite the intensity of their advance. The really horrific moment came next.

“Charge!”

Both Niers’ and Venaz's forces had finally closed the gap. Venaz had left a lot of his Selphids behind, but the students were on their feet. They hadn’t been told to lie down even after being struck by bolts. And they clearly wanted a fight after being pelted with the painted crossbow bolts.

And both sides had real weapons. Steel glinted. The students charged with a ragged yell. The Selphids on both sides shouted. But Niers had the advantage in numbers now, students notwithstanding. The first rank of his Selphids charged into Venaz's soldiers.

And they began to hack them to pieces.

Umina winced. The first two to meet were a Selphid wearing a Gnoll’s body and a Selphid Lizardman holding a glaive. The glaive-wielding Selphid swung as the Selphid with the Gnoll’s body charged with a sword. The glaive cut through the Gnoll’s arm, and he screamed as blood spurted from the wound. He dropped, and the Selphid with the glaive hacked at his legs, drawing blood, chopping through flesh, bone—

The students wearing yellow helmets paused in horror. A Selphid charged forwards, and another ran him through the belly. He fell down, screaming and writhing, and another soldier hacked at his head. It took six strikes, and the soldier finally yanked the head up by the hair and screamed as he held it up. He hurled the head at the students.

“Oh, dead gods. They’re using that fake blood.”

Umina saw blood spurting from wounds as Selphids on both sides began to hack at each other. Both groups of soldiers clashed in earnest, trading actual blows; Umina saw metal hacking into flesh, exposing bone. The blows were deadly! The Selphids took aim at each other, screaming as if they were actually fighting.

Not the students; anyone with a yellow helmet the Selphids on both sides avoided. And indeed, some let themselves be run through with the weapons as they fought with students. Their chest plates protected the centers of each dead body where the Selphid inside would be resting, ensuring that a fatal blow to the Selphid was never struck. But that meant limbs, heads, and other parts of the body were free game. And both sides let each other have it.

The shrieking Selphid with an axe chopped another Selphid’s head off, and the defeated Selphid’s body collapsed, spurting some painted red water as the Selphid with the axe screamed happily. He whirled, and Umina saw a terrified new student from Terandria screaming and raising his shield as the Selphid hacked at it. One blow, two, three…the Selphid let the student run and chased him, screaming—

And laughing. It was a game for the Selphids. They weren’t being hurt. These were just their host bodies. But the students had forgotten that. And faced with actual gore—Umina could remember what she’d felt. She’d been in their shoes.

Look. There, a Selphid was dragging out the guts of another [Soldier], and another was hacking at a dead body as a group of students fled, screaming in terror…the students around Umina were laughing, but the laughter was tinged with a bit of memory. Umina pointed at a student who’d just frozen in place as Selphids from Niers’ army butchered Venaz's force around him.

“I think I peed myself when that happened to me. I had one Selphid on my side holding onto me, screaming in pain and waving a bloody stump of an arm around…”

“Hold your ground! Hold!”

One of the Selphids under Venaz's command was shouting desperately, trying to rally the students. Some were fighting; the ones with actual combat experience were dueling Selphids, who were taking care not to hurt their opponents. But the majority of the hundred were running for the hills. The city folk in the stands were in stitches, enjoying the spectacle. Mindful of what Niers had said, Umina looked around.

“It doesn’t actually matter if they hold their ground, right?”

Wil shook his head. Embarrassed, he rubbed at his neck.

“I ran when it happened. All of us did; we got routed when the Professor sent some of his [Riders] to hack up our group. I think it’s only if you ask to go home. But I imagine a lot will after this.”

Umina stared at a student hiding behind a dead body as the [Soldiers] from Niers’ side pursued the rest, still screaming their lungs out. She wanted to imagine all the brown on the new students was mud.

“I don’t doubt that. Dead gods, I forgot how much the Selphids screamed.”

Yerranola sighed as she watched her kin pursuing the routing students and Selphids from Venaz's force.

“It’s to make it as real as possible. Besides, they’re having so much fun. It must be great, working this kind of job. I’m so jealous.”

“Really, Yerranola?”

The others looked at her. The Selphid [Strategist] nodded wistfully.

“Free bodies if you get yours destroyed, you can Rampage when you’re doing a training exercise and not worry about busting up all the muscles in your host, and you get respect, pay, and the chance to beat spoiled students over the head? It’s any Selphid’s dream come true.”

“Well, they’re all due for a new body thanks to Venaz's tactics. The Professor really must have shook him; he got his infantry butchered without so much as using a Skill.”

Marian nodded. She snatched the spectacles and peered around.

“Where’s that idiot got to? He’s, oh, hold on! Look at that!”

She pointed. Suddenly, Umina saw a group moving forwards, despite the routing infantry. It was Venaz and his command unit of thirty. He’d advanced around the main body of his infantry, using them as a shield! Now his remaining [Riders] streamed towards Niers’ infantry, cutting them off as they tried to turn and block them. But Venaz and his thirty-some soldiers were charging. Straight at Niers’ command unit!

“It was all a decoy? Look, he’s going for the Professor! Will the crossbows get him?”

They hadn’t noticed Venaz's group in the chaos of the students fleeing. Umina saw a command go out and the archers turn. But it was too late.

“Look, they’re firing—but now it’s too close!”

Venaz was leading his command straight at Niers as the crossbow bolts fell around him. Eight or so of his thirty soldiers went down from the sudden volley, but the rest made it. And now it was a melee between both sides, and if the crossbows shot, they’d risk hitting their own side!

“Dead gods! It’s ten versus thirty! And the Professor can’t fight!”

Alarmed, Marian stared through the spectacles. The laughter in the stands had ceased. Umina got to her feet.

“Wait, what if he falls. If they trample him—”

“He’s got magical artifacts, right?”

The others clustered around Marian, trying to squint and see the distant commotion that was the last fight on the battlefield. Marian shook her head urgently.

“He does, I’m sure. But does this mean…Venaz won?”

The others stared at each other. Niers had lost training exercises before, but it was rarer than a blue moon when it actually happened. Had Venaz's last-ditch gamble worked? Umina couldn’t believe it. This was such a simple exercise! Both sides hadn’t employed any Skills or real tactics; it was just to teach the new students a lesson. But had Venaz really…?

Then she heard a voice roaring across the battlefield. Amplified, loud as anything—

“Volley!”

The crossbows on Niers’ side rose. Umina’s eyes widened. They took aim.

“They’re shooting at the Professor’s command?”

In disbelief, Marian exclaimed. The bolts flew and cut down the Selphids fighting between Venaz and Niers’ command units. Selphids on both sides lay down, shouting as they pretended to be writhing in agony. Umina saw Venaz turning his head in disbelief. He was staring at the wooden dais, knocking it over, snarling—

“He’s not there!”

Umina watched as the second volley cut down Niers’ troops and Venaz’s. The ranged unit reloaded and fired again, and the Selphids obligingly lay down. A third volley took out the rest, until only a single Minotaur was left standing, furious, painted with the colors of a dozen crossbow bolts.

“Hold! Battle’s over! Hold!”

The shout went up across the battlefield. The remaining warriors put down their arms. Umina laughed in delight as she suddenly got it. Cameral, Wil, more than half the group was smiling. Marian’s eyes widened as she stared at the unit of archers with the enchanted spectacles. She chortled as well.

“Excellent! Venaz is never going to live this down.”

She pointed. And as Umina and the others leapt down the stands, they saw him. The Titan. He was standing on the helmet of one of his Selphids. The Titan bellowed cheerfully, waving his arms.

“The battle’s over! Training soldiers, stop harassing my new students, please!”

The female [Arbalist] whose helmet he was using waved at her fellow Selphids in the distance as the students ceased their panicked flight. Across the battlefield, the ‘dead’ Selphids were getting up. Those without legs or with bodies too damaged to stand were helped up by their comrades as they laughingly slapped backs or squirted out the rest of the colored ‘blood’ their bodies were carrying.

It was over. And just like that, the students realized the blood-covered [Soldiers] chasing them with actual weapons were just acting. The Selphids stopped running and laughed, pointing at the new students. Shamefaced, they turned back. Niers’ voice reached them across the field.

“I see you’ve mastered the first lesson any [Soldier] learns: when to run away! Come on back now, and we’ll have another talk. Anyone with injuries, raise your hands, and our [Healers] will be with you in a moment! As for my colorful Minotaur—”

There was a laugh from the stands. Niers turned to face Venaz. The Minotaur was stomping towards him, ignoring the cheerful Selphids around him.

“Venaz, wash yourself off! The rest of you, gather in our classroom for a debriefing. I’ll be with you in thirty minutes! Come on, you new students, pick up the pace! Enjoyed your taste of war? If you’re upset, remember that this is the least you’ll see on a battlefield. So rethink your decisions. And come forwards! Move those legs! Now, if you’re going to stay here…”

Umina walked off the field, smiling and shaking her head. She waved at Venaz, but the Minotaur stomped right past her, shouting for a bucket of water. The Lizardgirl looked back at the new students, who were looking up at the Titan as he addressed them.

Some of them were shaking. Others had actually thrown up during the fighting. Umina watched with a bit of sympathy as they gathered, shaking after that ordeal. They’d certainly seen fighting. Watching anyone, even a Selphid, acting being cut to pieces by a sword had to be jarring. She turned as the others in her class began to walk back inside, talking cheerfully. They hadn’t been forced to take part.

“I expect we’ll lose at least twenty. None of the actual soldiers, obviously. Some will probably get to an advanced class fast. Did you see that Gnoll with the spear? He actually got two of the Selphids!”

“Clearly a [Warrior] of some kind. I wonder if he served in one of the Drake armies or he’s a tribal Gnoll?”

“Tribal. Definitely a Plains Gnoll, not city.”

One of the other students waved a paw. Cameral turned to the one Gnoll in their group.

“What makes you so sure, Feshi?”

She bared her teeth.

“Aside from the smell I got from him? You can tell by his war markings. On his fur? No one from the cities would dare wear that.”

She pointed at one of the Gnolls among the new students who hadn’t run away screaming when the Selphids had been routed. He did indeed have some bright paint on his dark run. Umina squinted at Feshi; the Gnoll was one of the newer students to their class and she had white stripes and a curious pattern on her arms.

“You’ve got some yourself, Feshi. Is it a mark of status?”

The Gnoll [Tactician] grinned at Umina.

“Yes. Sometime I will explain it. But it will take too long now, I think. And here is Venaz!”

She pointed. The Minotaur was already back, his fur wet and dripping. It looked like he’d dunked a few buckets of water over his head. The others waved at him, and Marian trotted forwards, smiling archly.

“Venaz! Did you enjoy painting with the Professor? That was some beating you received!”

He growled at her.

“If it hadn’t been that damn mud—that’s twice now the Professor’s used hidden weapons on me! His Selphids came onto the field having already swapped their gear! If I’d have seen them do it—”

“—Then it wouldn’t be a surprise, Venaz. Honestly, you should have expected it.”

The Minotaur sneered at Marian, in too poor a mood for even an attempt at civility.

“What would you have done, tried to hit-and-run his forces? He would have chopped your riders up like the last four times he did that.”

Marian colored. She opened her mouth, and Umina jumped in.

“I’m sure the Professor was expecting you to try for a charge, Venaz. This was a battle he was supposed to win, to give those students a taste of war. And you got his command. Let’s wait to see what he says, alright?”

The Minotaur growled, but he subsided, and Marian didn’t poke him further as they went back to their classroom. There they milled about, chuckling over the battle and speculating over some of the new students’ aptitude. They didn’t have to wait long. Soon enough, a door set into the wall high up opened and someone walked out.

There were small doors set high up in each room of the Titan’s citadel. The Fraerling’s tiny walkways. And there were little ramps that let them walk down. The Fraerling marched out of the door and leapt—from his walkway to the lectern. It was a six foot drop, but none of his students so much as batted an eye; they’d seen him do it many times before.

“Good morning, class! And what have we learned today?”

The Titan of Baleros was in good spirits. He beamed at his class and especially at Venaz. They laughed as they took their seats. The Minotaur folded his arms and growled.

“To not trust the Titan of Baleros to fight fair?”

Niers Astoragon raised an eyebrow.

“I thought that was obvious, Venaz. But come, aside from my little trick, does anyone else have any observations?”

Marian snorted. The Centauress raised one hand as she took a seat, folding her hindquarters into the padded cushions designed for her people.

“I do. Venaz, this ‘lead from the front’ strategy you’re always preaching got your entire force wiped out. Again. Haven’t you learned your lesson by now?”

The Minotaur colored again. He swiveled in his seat and looked up at Marian with a scowl.

“Better aggression than cowardice. Or how would you have taken out a superior, ranged force? Danced about while they shot you to pieces? I knew the Professor had pikes. So I risked a frontal charge—”

“And then you got cut to pieces. You even missed the Professor when you attacked his command force.”

Marian taunted Venaz from her higher seat. The Minotaur opened his mouth furiously, but Niers forestalled another huge argument between the two.

“Marian. Thank you, you’ve made your points.”

The Centaur ducked her head at his reproving tone. Niers looked at Venaz.

“Do you have anything to say yourself, Venaz?”

Almost sulkily, the Minotaur folded his arms and looked down at the desk in front of him.

“If it were anyone but you, sir, my strategy would have been sound! Once I took out the enemy command, their army would be left without a leader. I could then rally my forces and retreat or retrench and win the battle.”

“But the crossbows—”

Venaz glared at Wil.

“I could block one volley with my [Arrowguard Formation] Skill! I didn’t use any because the Professor didn’t. And with his demise, we could have used the fallen bodies as shields.”

“But wouldn’t the crossbows still have—”

“Not if he was there!”

Venaz snapped. Niers looked at him, and the Minotaur subsided. Niers walked up to the edge of his lectern and sat there, feet dangling over the side. He nodded thoughtfully.

“Venaz is correct that he would have taken out my command. And if this were a larger battle, all of my [Strategists] would have been killed, it’s true. If I were a [General], that would be a crippling blow, regardless of whether or not I personally escaped.”

He forestalled the Minotaur’s response with a tiny palm. Umina leaned forwards, listening as Niers looked around the room. His eyes met hers for a second, and she caught his smile.

“However, knowing your opponent matters. And aside from the trick with the riders at the start…if it were me, Venaz, I would have sent my command forwards without going myself. And if I were you, I’d have taken those remaining [Riders] and charged the crossbow line instead of stalling my foot soldiers. You could have done a lot of damage if you’d gotten close enough. And you would have split their attention away from the fight at the command nicely.”

Umina saw Venaz blink.

“You mean, split my forces further?”

“Why not? You don’t need thirty troops to take on ten. Send fifteen to take out my command, stall with five, and send the remaining ten, your riders, and yourself to hit my crossbows. The horses can probably dodge in and stop them from picking you off…it’s a desperate gamble, but I think it would be a more efficient use of your soldiers. Either you win and decimate a large number of my crossbows, or I force you back. Regardless, I never get to shoot up your soldiers at my leisure.”

The other students digested that. Marian raised a hand.

“So you’re saying Venaz wasn’t aggressive enough, Professor?”

“Possibly. I hope Venaz can take my words to heart. I know he prefers a cautious strategy most of the time…”

Niers laughed, and after a second Venaz had to chuckle himself. The Titan relaxed, as did his students. And the classroom took on a different air from the lectures or the shouted introduction Niers had given to the new students. In this room, the tone was conversational, friendly. Intimate. Niers reached for a tiny wand and flicked it; he began drawing in the air, illustrating the battle with bright lines of color.

“I understand Venaz's line of thinking, Marian. If he wasn’t going to retreat, he might as well gamble on doing enough damage. And Venaz would have been one of the highest-level fighters on the field. Lead from the front. There is a good deal of practicality behind the concept; a [Strategist] rallies the soldiers around him, and if you’re confident in your abilities, why not regard yourself as a valuable piece on the battlefield?”

Venaz was nodding with a broad smile on his face. Niers raised a tiny finger.

“However, let’s not confuse practicality with culture. And there’s a lot of that in your strategy too, Venaz. I understand Minotaurs promote bravery on the battlefield. But it’s making your tactics predictable. And you know what I think about predictability.”

“It gets you killed.”

Umina chorused with some of the other students. Venaz drummed his fingers on the desk. He was searching for a response, Umina knew. The Minotaur was incredibly stubborn and refused to be easily swayed by anyone, even Niers himself.

“I understand that, sir. But there’s nothing wrong with having a style. Didn’t you say that high-level Skills develop as a result of your style? If I were to gain a powerful attacking Skill, like your [Charge of the Strategist]—wouldn’t I be remiss if I didn’t use it in battle?”

The tiny Fraerling smiled. He tossed the wand back on his desk as he spread his hands.

“I did indeed. And never let it be said that I underestimate Skills—if you’d used yours during the battle and I had not, you might have won, Venaz. But there’s knowing your opponent as well. Even the King of Destruction doesn’t use his best Skills in every battle; he adapts. And an unused Skill is one the opponent watches for the entire time. And again, if I know you’ll commit to every massive attack yourself, why shouldn’t I always keep an archer in reserve to aim for you?”

Venaz chewed that over for a second.

“I suppose so, sir. But consider my perspective as well. My people don’t respect a [Strategist] who won’t fight on the frontlines.”

“Then don’t fight every battle on the front, Venaz.”

“But what would be the point if I didn’t consider myself an asset, as you said, Professor? What if I just fought elsewhere, in say, smaller skirmishes as a feint—”

“Dead gods, Venaz! Stop arguing!”

From her seat, Yerranola hurled some fruit peels at him. The Minotaur growled, and the Titan waved a hand.

“I think your obsession with having to fight is the real issue, Venaz. But Yerranola’s correct. We can’t stick onto this debate; I’m tired of having it with you, and I intend to discuss actually relevant work today. Which brings me back to my assignment. You’re all back, I note, and it’s been a week. How have you done? I see Perorn’s left her notes. Kind of her. Hm. Interesting. And, oh dear. Let’s not beat about the bushes. Wil?”

The young man stood up. He was pale.

“Yes, Professor?”

Niers waved impatiently at him. He peered down at the large clipboard.

“Sit, sit. And calm down, Wil. You’re not in trouble. Although I fear your Gold-rank team might be very unhappy with you. But they knew the risks. What do you think was the problem? I see they were hunting a Cyclops. Nasty. And rare. Still, they should have been able to handle it; it seems they were a well-respected team.”

“Yes, sir. They—I thought they could handle it with some degree of risk. I didn’t expect them to be completely wiped out. It was—I’m sorry to have wasted—”

Wil was red-faced despite the Professor’s words and stumbling over himself. Umina looked away guiltily. Niers glanced up. The other students were shifting, as one did in a situation like this. Cameral was pointing his head the other way, pretending Wil’s embarrassment was not happening, Marian was looking at her notes, Yerranola was trying to pat Wil’s leg covertly—

And Venaz, true to form, was staring at Wil with arms folded, clearly willing the young man to hurry up and finish. Niers lifted a hand.

“Calm down, Wil.”

For a second, Umina felt the voice grow…firmer if that was possible. So firm it was an inescapable order. Wil stopped stuttering. His face grew less red. Niers looked up at him with a friendly smile, like a grandfather. He shook his head.

“You’ve been with this class for, what, a year now?”

“Yes, sir.”

The Titan nodded.

“Then you know it’s not about money. I gave you your funds to hire the adventuring teams as part of the exercise, Wil. And these are all monsters in my company’s territory; it’s not about that. Nor is your failure solely your fault; each team evaluates the danger of the request and takes it. Calm down and tell me what you think happened as impartially as you can. In the meantime, Marian. I see you had your team hunt an Armorgator. That’s a sizable task for a Silver-rank team.”

Wil sat back in his seat, breathing slowly. Yerranola offered him a drink. Umina glanced up at him; he was relaxing. The young man from Terandria was often high-strung and nervous when it came to classwork; he was steadier on the battlefield, ironically. But embarrassed though he might be if the flushed cheeks were any indication, the Titan was giving him time to recover. And Wil was taking it.

That was what the Titan’s personal class was like. Some of it was lectures, but by this stage, all of his students were expected to know a myriad of strategies and formations. Any one of them could take to the field at a moment’s notice and command an army—some of them had, in actual battles!

No, what they gained from these lessons was practical experience in the field and discussion, conversation, even arguments with Niers Astoragon himself in the class. It wasn’t a situation where you were ever totally wrong, and there was no penalty for being incorrect. You were meant to learn, and the Titan strived to make sure you did.

“…And so, I was sure that the team I hired could take on the Armorgators with zero risk, sir. If they stayed at a distance and bombarded the monster with spells, the creature would never be able to snap them up. The worst that could happen was that it could retreat.”

“And so they killed the monster after a day of work. Nicely done. And it does rid the area of a large threat. Hm. I see.”

Niers nodded. He glanced around the room and raised his voice.

“As you all recall, my homework was to find a team and have them take on the most pressing threat to the area possible. Whether you were assigned Bronze, Silver, or Gold-ranks, I asked you to form a request that would see a specific team used to their best effect. Marian’s clearly done well, but I think…Umina? Would you explain these quills?”

He pointed down at the pile of quills on the Mossbear pelt. There were several chuckles from the students. Umina got up.

“Yes, sir. I believe the Scattershot Porcupines were the best threat for my team to deal with.”

Niers tapped a foot as he stood on his lectern.

“I understand Scattershot Porcupines are not exactly a dangerous threat. Except to my people. It would seem that your team could have taken on a more powerful enemy. After all, the local [Guardsmen] and even a [Mercenary] could probably handle a few errant porcupines, couldn’t they?”

He looked at Umina sternly. But the Lizardgirl saw the twinkle. She smiled.

“That’s true, sir. But may I present my argument?”

“By all means.”

“Then, firstly, I’ll say that my Bronze-rank team had no name listed. And they didn’t when I hired them.”

“I did see that. Was there some reason for this? An unregistered team, perhaps?”

Umina shook her head.

“No, sir. The reason was that they were still arguing about what the name should be. The team I hired was the greenest, newest team I could find that I thought had potential.”

There was a shift in the classroom. Marian blinked as she looked sidelong at Umina. Niers smiled.

“I see. You wouldn’t task a team like that with a big threat, would you?”

“No, sir. And Scattershot Porcupines are dangerous. One can put out an eye; they can also run away fast. A team has to learn to flank them, keep them from running, even track them down. Especially if their [Mages] have poor aim. It took my team five days to eliminate all of them. And I put a bounty on each head they brought me, and gave them an exclusive contract.”

The Titan smiled.

“I see. So you were training them?”

“Their [Mage]’s aim, and their [Hunter]. Yes, sir. As for why I thought this was the most pressing threat—this particular group of porcupines had been straying near villages, and more than one child had been hit by quills from them. They might not have killed anyone, but they were encroaching into Lizardfolk territory. And that might be more of a threat than a known Armorgator or Mossbears who stay in their homes. No offense, Marian, Venaz.”

Umina looked at her classmates. Marian blinked at her. Niers was grinning. He applauded softly.

“Well done. That’s excellent reasoning.”

“Oh, but there’s one more thing, Professor.”

The Lizardgirl looked at the Fraerling. He raised one eyebrow.

“Oh? Enlighten me.”

“The Scattershot Porcupines were encroaching into Lizardfolk territory, but they were also migrating into the forest. Near a Fraerling village, sir.”

The room went silent. Niers looked up sharply, then nodded to Umina.

“Ah. In that case, you have my thanks twice over. The smallest of creatures can destroy a Fraerling village if things go wrong. And if the Tallguard had to fight a pack…a quill can go straight through a Fraerling. Well done, then. Well done indeed.”

“Thank you, Professor.”

Umina sat, and felt that triumphant bubbling in her chest. Marian leaned over and whispered to her.

“You didn’t tell me that!”

“It was part of the exercise. Not everything’s about size, Marian.”

“Exactly.”

Niers had overhead the two. Umina blushed and Marian sat up. The Fraerling looked up at them with a faint smile.

“This lesson was to help you deal with adventuring teams, which I’m sure you will all have to do. Monsters are tricky, and adventurers, for all their quirks, are better than [Soldiers] at dealing with them. You were also tasked with identifying which threats would be too much for your teams and which were the most pressing. Umina clearly focused on the societal impact, while Venaz and Marian weighed in on threat-analysis. Neither approach was wrong. With that said, Wil. Do you have an answer?”

The Lizardgirl sat in her seat, a bit red with the gentle rebuke. Wil got to his feet, then remembered he didn’t have to stand and sat back down, flushing. Then he stood back up anyways.

“I do, sir. And I think it was just…bad luck.”

“Bad luck?”

Venaz looked incredulous. Wil halted, and Niers gave Venaz a reproving look.

“Bad luck is a legitimate answer, Venaz. Go on, Wil.”

“It was…the Cyclops had a den set up, and I informed the team of where it was. However, I didn’t know another team had been pursuing the monster. A different contract on the same Cyclops. Both teams ran into each other by accident as the first tried to smoke the Cyclops out. And the other team hunting it was Silver-rank. Unprepared. They hadn’t told anyone in their guild they were going after the Cyclops; there was no way of knowing.”

Niers grimaced.

“Unprepared adventurers going after a bigger score in desperation. I’m familiar with that all too well. Go on.”

“Well, as I heard it from the survivors, they found the first team right as the Cyclops emerged from the den. It went after the [Mages] first—by luck, perhaps—and from then on…”

Umina listened to Wil’s account of his team’s demise, wincing along with the rest. It had indeed been a very poor encounter thanks to the first Silver-rank team’s bungling, and both teams had lost nearly all their members. Niers shook his head when the story was over.

“Ill luck indeed. And it would have been hard to predict. I agree with your assessment, Wil. Don’t take your team’s failure too hard to heart—as for the survivors of that Silver-rank team, I’d be concerned for their lives. Vengeance from other adventuring teams is not a pleasant discussion. I’ll look into it perhaps. Alright. Who else has a story to tell?”

He glanced around at the show of hands.

“Venaz? If your team just went head-to-head with the bears, I’m not impressed. Dwarves are stout fighters. How would that push them? Mossbears aren’t exactly dangerous anyways, and I asked for threats, not trophies. Yerranola? Not too impressive, unless you have something to add? Jekilt? Your team failed their mission. How did that happen?”

Five other students spoke, and Niers commented briefly on each story or result. It wasn’t just commentary; he shared his own thoughts and experiences from being an adventurer, as well as how to employ the other teams to best effect, or how to give them a bit of help with or without their knowledge. But that was just the homework. And while it had taken the students a week, Niers didn’t dwell overly long on it.

“Alright. Enough about adventuring. I trust you’ve all been keeping up on recent events. What do you think about the latest developments in Chandrar? The war against Tiqr and the King of Destruction’s proclamation?”

Umina raised her hand with half the class. This was another moment she looked forwards to because Niers gave his frank opinion on the situation. And hearing the Titan’s thoughts was worth gold. She wondered if the rulers of each nation would take his advice if they were in her seat. Then she had another thought: was one of the students relaying the Titan’s words to other nations? It wasn’t out of the question. Umina wasn’t doing it; the risk wasn’t worth the reward.

But this was another aspect of the class that students in the other classes missed. They studied tactics; Niers’ best class studied politics. Politics were as much a [Strategist]’s lot as tactical engagements. And grand strategy, the movements of armies and kingdoms, was just as important.

Niers had explained it to Umina and the others like this: a regular [Strategist] could just think of his army and the conditions affecting it. But a true [Strategist], the ones he was trying to train, would think about the nation, country, or cause they fought for as a whole and how their army would affect that. They were fighting on multiple levels and, as such, their actions mattered.

“To be frank, I have to admire the Empress of Beasts and what she tried to do at Pomle. If you look at the situation objectively, the King of Destruction is in a bind. If he goes to war, the other nations will turn on him. But they’re being played.”

Niers had ordered Venaz to help Marian put up a map so he could use his wand to illustrate the political situation. He pointed at Tiqr, now at war with all of its neighbors.

“You see, Tiqr is in trouble, but these other nations have now incurred the King of Destruction’s wrath. A risky position to be in. They’ve shown their hand—too early, I feel. I have no doubt the Emperor of Sands orchestrated this. If I were in, say, an advisory capacity to the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fall, I would have told her to take the position Tiqr did at the summit. Which would have backfired splendidly had my nation been the only one present. Two, on the other hand…”

“Why would you have stayed out of war with the King of Destruction, sir? Isn’t it wise to attack him straight off? I almost feel like the other nations are making a mistake not going after him, rather than focusing on Tiqr.”

Umina raised her claw to ask the obvious. Niers smiled at her, and Umina’s heart skipped a beat.

“The King of Destruction is frightening, that’s why, Umina. Yes, it’s sensible to attack him in concert. But the first coalition army he smashed to pieces. True, it wasn’t nearly what could have been fielded against him, but imagine you’re the [Strategist] that has to commit to an offensive against the King of Destruction. Knowing what you know of his past?”

He looked around the room. Umina gulped. She wouldn’t take that job, not for love or money. Niers went on.

“I imagine all the [Generals] of each nation are shaking in their boots thinking of how to go up against Flos, let alone Orthenon. Remember, the King of Destruction can turn the tides even in the face of impossible odds. If Nerrhavia’s Fall committed a hundred thousand soldiers to a battle against Reim in its current state, Flos would win. The first battle, at least. And if you’re the nation bearing the brunt of the conflict, you’re wide open to an attack after Reim is defeated. Either way, you lose. With that said—it would be smart to oppose him, as you said, Umina. But tiring yourself out fighting Tiqr and making him your enemy straight off is a poor choice.”

“So you would do…what, Professor?”

The Fraerling smiled.

“Take a middling stance. Which was what Tiqr’s [Empress] tried to do. She was certainly not Flos’ worst enemy at that summit, by all reports. But neither did she declare for him—she still hasn’t. Normally, that would give her an advantage in negotiations; I’d push for concessions to join a coalition against Reim. But as I said, it backfired. It seems the rulers of each nation were coerced or too hotheaded to take a measured approach. Now, if I were in another nation, say, Belchan or Jecrass, I would be complying with the King of Destruction and playing both sides.”

“But if the King of Destruction attacks…”

“If he attacks, he’s broken his vow. In which case, all bets are off the table. But Flos was never one to forswear himself. If he breaks his oath, Cameral, I can’t predict what he’ll do. But if I were Jecrass’ [King]? And if it were me? I would consider what benefitted my country. And frankly, if the Forgotten Wing company were based on Chandrar, I would, at this moment, be approaching the King of Destruction for an alliance.”

A gasp filled the room. Niers rolled his eyes.

“Don’t be dramatic. I realize my past with the King of Destruction is public knowledge, but he’s no fool. Nor am I; betting against the King of Destruction is a fool’s game. It always was. And if I had a navy with faster ships, and I was sure the other Great Companies wouldn’t stab me in the back, I’d be taking all of you to Chandrar to earn as much gold and prestige as possible. Chandrar is rife with opportunity. Especially if you have the stomach to trade in slaves.”

He grimaced and took a small sip from a cup.

“Well, it’s not as if Baleros doesn’t have enough gold. And the jungles may run red with blood, but Baleros doesn’t live on tears. The Slavers of Roshal will benefit from this conflict more than anyone else. Gah. Enough. Let’s focus on armies. Tiqr’s definitely in trouble. Aside from the fact that their [Beast Tamers] aren’t exactly good at large-scale battles, they’re up against Nerrhavia and Illivere. Savere isn’t a threat so long as the fighting stays away from the coasts, but it means they’ll be raiding constantly…

Only the Titan would force his best students to command a full-scale defense of a nation from eight different hostile armies and expect them to win a scenario like that. Umina scored points, as did Feshi, both of whose species had historical precedents for that kind of fighting. Marian got berated for trying to apply her usual strategy to Tiqr’s forces, and Venaz earned a grudging point from Niers for his suggestion.

“Hire Minotaurs. My people have already been contracted to fight the King of Destruction.”

“Which they haven’t done.”

Venaz shrugged stoically at Marian.

“I haven’t been home in three years. But if they gave their word, they gave their word. They probably can’t land yet.”

Niers smiled crookedly.

“I’m not surprised. The odds of any coastal nation allowing a fleet from the House of Minos to land is remote, no matter what they say. But the King of Destruction had better watch his coastal expansions twice over. But if they’re against Reim, why hire them, Venaz?”

“Because that’s the King of Destruction. This is a separate matter. If Tiqr can pay, have them contract four warships. They won’t hit Savere, but Nerrhavia has a large coast. Minotaur [Mercenaries] could pull most of their forces away with ease.”

“Trust a Minotaur to vouch for his own people. You might as well hire a Great Company from Baleros.”

Yerranola muttered. Niers smiled.

“Good point, Yerranola. And I said no. Tiqr can’t afford my services, and as I said, our navy’s not at that point yet. I can’t imagine the Iron Vanguard would say yes either, and they’re the only Great Company with a navy large enough to join the fray.”

The Selphid inhaled her snack. Literally. She didn’t choke as oxygen wasn’t exactly a problem, but Umina had to sit through a few nasty minutes of squelching as the Selphid cleared the blockage in her throat. Niers chuckled.

“I keep telling you, don’t underestimate rulers. They can be cunning, desperate…but I wanted to bring something else up. Yerranola, I think you had something to say?”

“I did, sir. Sorry about the sounds. Uh, have you read the latest chess newsletter from Liscor, by any chance?”

Yerranola looked innocently at the Titan. Niers’ eyebrows shot up.

“I didn’t. Has it arrived? Peclir must have notified me, and I forgot. I’ll have it sent here. Unless you have a copy?”

The Selphid waved a stack of papers over her head. Niers smiled.

“Of course. Cameral too? And Umina, I see. Well, give me one—spread it out on the ground so I can read from here. The rest of you can share it around.”

“Here, Marian.”

As Yerranola trotted down, Umina shared her version with Wil and Marian. She knew what it said, and Marian had gotten the basic outline. But the Centauress still exclaimed over what was written.

“Employing Goblins as…an irregular adventuring force? Cancelling the bounty on Goblin ears? Is this Drake an idiot?”

Kissilt frowned over Cameral’s shoulder. The Drake’s tail was lashing with agitation.

“I can’t believe this. Either he’s mad, or Liscor gone completely off the walls. I knew it was insane already with that Hive below it, but this? The Walled Cities must be in uproar.”

Venaz was just as incensed.

“This Olesm Swifttail would let Goblin Lords pop up left and right. I don’t know what’s possessed him, but this is far outside of his regular chess commentary. It’s a disgrace, isn’t it, Professor? Professor?”

The Fraerling was reading. He looking up calmly.

“Shut up, Venaz. You’re speaking like every Minotaur student I ever had.”

“But sir—”

“Do you recall that just a decade ago, my company had a pact with the only Goblin-led company in Baleros? Or have you forgotten the name of the Goblin’s Lament company already?”

The students fell silent. Niers looked around.

“It was a strong company. And until he became a Goblin King, Velan the Kind was considered the equal of any company leader. A Goblin Lord you could reason with. He didn’t earn that reputation by being untrustworthy. He kept to his promises more than any company I can name. Including my own.”

“And then he slaughtered entire cities and declared war on the world.”

Venaz's eyes burned crimson for a second. Niers looked at him, and the Minotaur glared back. The air went icy around Niers, and Venaz's eyes and fury dissipated. Umina sat back in her seat. The Titan glared at Venaz until the Minotaur looked away.

“Yes. He did. But that is the nature of Goblin Kings. And until that day, I trusted Velan the Kind. I spoke to him. And he was sane, Venaz. I don’t know what the House of Minos endures. But if this Olesm Swifttail claims to have met Hobs that defended Liscor—I believe him. Or did you not see Goblin fighting Goblin during the siege?”

The Minotaur didn’t respond. He was struck dumb, at least for the moment. Feshi looked uncomfortable. She raised a paw.

“Hrr. But there is precedent for wariness, yes? Professor, are you suggesting now that this idea should be put into place?”

The Gnoll held still as the Titan shifted his glance to her. Then, abruptly, Niers sighed. He stroked his beard, looking older and more tired.

“I suppose not, Feshi. In light of what I now know? No. But again, I think we are making a mistake in how we view this young [Strategist]’s claims. Olesm Swifttail is not saying we must make peace with Goblins, or hire them. These are suggestions. His observations. Since when has having an opinion been so wrong?”

He glanced up.

“Kissilt, I see you opening your mouth. Before you speak, consider that this [Strategist] is floating an idea. The reaction of the Walled Cities and his fellow [Strategists] are predictable. But you know what I think about that. All of you, I want you to engage with this idea in a way that doesn’t make me think you’re giving me a gut reaction. Especially you, Venaz. I’m sure this Olesm Swifttail is already getting a very vocal response. But point out the good in his suggestions. He’s also done some commentary on the Siege of Liscor. Thoughts? These Painted Soldiers he references…”

“We saw them during the battle, sir. Those Antinium with colors?”

“Yes. And they concern me more than any suggestion about Goblins. If the Antinium have come up with a new breed of Soldier—what was their kill-to-death ratio before the Goblin Lord took their formation to pieces? Someone go and tell a servant to fetch a recording of the battle. I think we’ve got one of Wistram’s new movie crystals…”

Umina had more than one reason to admire Niers during the rest of their lesson. Not only did he have his students do a calculation of the Painted Soldier’s kill-to-death ratio and compare it to other Antinium groups—a very disturbing result, even if you accounted for the fact that their opponents were Goblins—he gave them a short story about employing Goblin adventurers, something so rare it had only occurred once in Baleros.

“And only when Velan was alive. The only other instance of a Goblin adventurer I have ever heard of is in Izril. Garen Redfang of the Halfseekers. And as I understand it, he died at Liscor.”

“Slain by the Gecko of Liscor himself.”

Kissilt murmured. Niers looked up.

“One of Liscor’s champions, Kissilt? Can you elaborate on him? I do recall him, but I don’t know all the particulars of famous Drake soldiers, I’m afraid.”

“No, sir. I mean, I know a little, sir, but he’s no longer considered part of the standing army. He’s a former [Sergeant] in Liscor’s army. I grew up hearing about him. Pallass is close to Liscor, and I suppose he’s just one of the names I heard growing up. I thought he was retired. But he would be good enough to take down even a Gold-rank adventurer.”

“Hm. Interesting. Never underestimate retired warriors, even old ones. Especially old ones, I should mention. More than one [General] has died when entering a supposedly conquered city. A seventy-year-old Dullahan [Sniper] can still fire a crossbow. And they really don’t like armies burning down their homes.”

Stories, reminiscence, his take on what he personally would do, and debate. It was the kind of class Umina enjoyed most. Even more than a mock battle where she could choose her army and face off against one of her fellow students, using all her Skills on the training field. This was what she enjoyed. It was fun being in the Titan’s class, arguing with Venaz, trying to impress the Professor with an observation.

And it couldn’t last. It never did last long enough. After four, all-too-short hours, the Titan had to go. His students might take other lessons, but Niers Astoragon had to manage his company, or do a thousand other things. That they got this much time with him was important. But today, the Titan didn’t send them off with one of his assignments, or simply his blessing and an injunction not to get too drunk before tomorrow’s class. Today, the Fraerling clapped for everyone’s attention as he stood on his podium.

“That’s enough for today. And I hesitate to bring this up, but if you’ve forgotten, our little game begins shortly. Has anyone forgotten? Because now might be a good time to panic.”

The class chuckled and shook their heads. Niers smiled affectionately, but there was that twinkle in his eyes his students had learned to pick up on.

“Excellent. We’re gathering in Daquin in two days. If you’re not joining me on the trip, be there by midmorning or you’ll be unable to compete in the exercise. And remember the rules of the game. No deaths. No blades or dangerous magic. Aside from that, do your best and try to distinguish yourselves. I think this year’s audience will be very interested to see how you do. As will I.”

Umina’s stomach twisted with apprehension. She glanced around the class; most of her fellow students seemed excited. Wil looked somewhat sick, but he always did before a test. And this was a test, even if it was a game.

“Sir, any word on who will be, uh, finding us this year?”

Marian spoke up casually. The Titan laughed.

“I’m sure you’d like to know, Marian. But if you haven’t found out, I won’t be telling you. Isn’t knowing you’re going to Daquin enough?”

“Come on, Professor. A hint would help—we are going up against our seniors, aren’t we?”

Niers waggled a finger at Kissilt.

“That’s what they said when they were in your shoes, Kissilt. Just relax. Lay a few traps. Make plans; I’m sure they’re thinking of how best to box you in.”

The Drake grumbled, but good-naturedly. He was excited for the competition, Umina could tell. The Drake looked up at her and grinned. He wasn’t nearly as hostile as most Drakes who met Lizardfolk, but the ember of competition was still burning hotter in his eyes.

“Think you can survive until the end, Umina?”

“That depends on what the Professor’s done to mess with us.”

Umina peeked at Niers. He grinned, but didn’t take the bait. Marian shook her head.

“Professor, when did this game start? And why is one of the biggest tests of our entire academic lives a game of hide-and-seek?”

Niers sighed.

“Marian, when you get to my age…”

His students laughed or groaned; it was the answer the Fraerling liked to give when he was avoiding the question. But there was that twinkle in his eyes. Umina looked down at the Titan and wondered.

It was said that the Titan of Baleros lived on excitement. If he were to go a week without some kind of chaos or excitement occurring, he would die of boredom, or so the myth went. Which was patently untrue. Niers Astoragon was perfectly capable of living without some kind of interesting event occurring in his life every few days. It was just that if you offered him the choice between a peaceful life and offing himself, he might just choose the latter.

This event was one of the things the Titan used to entertain himself when he wasn’t on campaign. It was also considered one of his penultimate tests for his students. And it was a simple concept, really.

Once every few years, sometimes once a decade, and at one point, he’d done it every year for eight years straight, the Titan of Baleros would announce a game with his students. It usually happened in times of enduring peace; it never happened when there was war or unrest. It was a game that involved his students, past and prior. He would take his students to a location, be it a city or patch of jungle or even an artificial maze, and give them a day to hide while an entire army searched for them.

It wouldn’t just be Umina’s special class there. Over a hundred of Niers’ students nearing graduation, and even some recent graduates, would be invited to attend. His current students and recent graduates would be hiding. And the seekers would be his guests of honor—the older [Strategists], his first students, veterans of dozens of wars.

It was a game of hide-and-seek. But what a game! What competition! The former students of the Titan would relentlessly hunt down the new students while the hiders tried to fulfill some kind of criteria that changed every year. And it sometimes got intense.

Because the game wasn’t ‘find someone and they’re out’, or even ‘tag, you’re out’. It was ‘capture the hiders by whatever means necessary’. Which meant the students could and did fight back. And the seekers could subdue them by whatever means necessary short of permanent bodily harm. They had some of Niers’ soldiers armed with clubs, nets, and other helpful tools to facilitate that process. And the new students often laid traps, made alliances—they’d fight back with every trick they knew to stay free and clear of their pursuers.

Ostensibly, it was a game designed to teach Niers’ students what it was like to be cut off from their forces, to prepare them for situations where they might be hunted by [Assassins] or an enemy army in a city, jungle, or what have you. In practice, Umina suspected it was the Titan’s way of having fun.

“Call it a hobby of mine. And it certainly provides entertainment. At least for me. I understand it’s an opportunity for all of you.”

His students nodded to varying degrees of excitement. That was certainly true. In the past, this might have been just a game Niers played for his own enjoyment and his students’ benefit in outwitting each other. But as was the nature of all kinds of spectacle, word had spread, and now his semi-regular competition had an audience that would come from all over Baleros to watch.

And it mattered. It always did. Umina saw several students including Venaz look around warily at the Titan’s words. Because, of course, they were all already being watched.

It was a fact. Umina, Marian, Venaz…they were all the Titan’s best students. When they graduated, they would be the best crop of [Strategists] of their age in the entire continent. Perhaps one of them might be as brilliant as Perorn Fleethoof, or perhaps even as gifted as the Titan of Baleros himself.

Other nations and companies kept an eye on Niers’ class; some had even approached Umina, covertly or publicly, to test her out, see if she might make a good hire. And if there were eyes on Umina already, well, during the games, there would be even more. Umina had seen visitors watching her as she conducted those war games against her fellow students, evaluating her.

This would be another chance to stand out. If she somehow performed really splendidly, she might even get an offer to serve as a [Strategist] in another company or for a nation after she graduated. Some students had even quit the academy during school because they’d impressed a visiting [King] or ruler so much!

“A chance to win prestige in the eyes of the world. A rousing competition for me to enjoy. Sea and surf at Daquin; they do some very fine prawns too. What’s not to like?”

The Titan looked around at his students. They smiled back, but with an edge. It was all fun for him, but they were [Strategists]. They wanted to win. And there was a reason, even more than the thrill of beating older [Strategists] and their classmates. There was a rumor about winning this particular game. Umina had heard some of the older students whispering about it in the past.

There was always a way to beat your pursuers outside of outwaiting the seekers. Sometimes it was to solve a puzzle, or travel a certain distance. One time it had been to subdue a Wyvern the Titan had let loose, and hadn’t that been a bloody year? But the risk was always worth the reward, and it was always the same.

The reward was that you got to go to the Professor’s private rooms, you entered, and apparently, you could ask him anything you wanted. Any question in the world and the Fraerling would answer it if he could, be it personal or huge, earth-shattering.

Any question. The students looked at each other, wondering if it was true. And because they wondered and because Venaz was…Venaz, he raised his hand.

“Professor, sir! I have a question.”

“Go on.”

The Titan looked at the Minotaur with a sparkle in his eye. Venaz got to his hooves, and hesitated, which was uncharacteristic even of him.

“Professor, I’ve heard that this…contest of yours has a reward. I’d like to know if that’s true or not. Otherwise, what’s the purpose of victory?”

The Minotaur met the Fraerling’s eyes. Umina held her breath along with the other students. Niers looked up at the ceiling.

“Hm. A reward? I wonder. I do know there are rumors—I wonder how they started? Which prize would you be referring to, exactly, Venaz?”

“Professor…”

The Titan’s eyes twinkled as the Minotaur growled at him. He stood upon his lectern for a moment, and Umina wondered if he’d refuse to answer. Then he smiled.

“The answer, Venaz, is yes. Any question in the world. If I know it, I’ll answer it. So choose your question wisely. If you win—you only get one.”

The silence in the room was complete. Umina felt her heart skip a beat. So it was true. Then she saw the Titan grinning with delight. His students exhaled slowly. Venaz looked around.

“Any question? But what if—”

“Ah.”

Niers raised a finger. The Minotaur shut up. Niers Astoragon looked stern.

“Venaz, obviously there are some questions that are tantamount to giving away the secrets of my company. Obviously some questions are dangerous.”

His student nodded, a tad disappointed. Niers smiled.

“I’ll answer them. Any question in the world. As dangerous as it may be to know. I’ve done it before. And some of my students have died because they asked a question and got my answer. Not from me, personally. But I know a lot. Any question. Any question. My level, the location of buried treasure. The name of your greatest enemy. Their weakness. What Foliana had for breakfast. Anything.”

His students stared. And then they whispered. Marian looked at Umina, vibrating with anticipation.

“What could you ask…?”

She cut herself off. Niers raised a hand.

“If you win. If you’re the one who finishes first. Don’t get excited; there’s only one winner. And you’re hardly the only competition. Two years running, the victor hasn’t come from my advanced class. Remember that.”

His students calmed down. Then they appraised each other again. There could only be one. Niers Astoragon smiled.

“Well, as I said, we’re leaving tomorrow. Pack your things. Make your plans if you haven’t already. Remember the rules. Try to win. Class dismissed!”

He leapt from his podium and strode up the platforms leading towards the Fraer-ways. Before anyone could stop him—and a few of his students shouted questions—the Titan was gone. And that left Umina excited, nervous, and very scared. She glanced at her fellow students, then hurried out of the room, grabbing her notes and things.

Let the games begin.



——



“I’m going to lose.”

Twenty minutes later, Umina sat in her small room in the apartment she’d rented only five minutes’ walk from the citadel. She buried her head in her claws. She’d known it already. And she’d tried not to get excited by the game because of it, but now she wanted to win. And she knew she was going to lose.

It wasn’t that Umina didn’t have the drive. Or the levels. She was a Level 27 [Strategist], a genius for her age. At nineteen years old, Umina was one of the youngest students in Niers’ advanced class, a prodigy among her species. She had a dozen Skills she could call on, and she placed with the best when it came to his field exercises or debates in class. She could and had beaten every one of her classmates in the practice war games; she was especially good at taking down Venaz, who, despite his brash attitude and nature, was still one of the best students when commanding the training soldiers in practice.

However…Umina’s face fell as she checked her purse of coins. She had all her worldly wealth sitting on the table in front of her, illuminated by a [Light] spell she’d cast. The Lizardgirl counted unhappily.

“One, two, three…”

The coins came out of her purse, as if by counting them Umina could double or triple their number. But no matter how many times she counted them, she barely had more than twenty coins.

Silver. Not gold. And she had two gold coins, but that was rent and food for this month. If Umina spent them, she’d be destitute until her family sent her more money. And while she could probably survive by borrowing from her friends, at least Marian…what was three gold coins’ worth of money going to buy her?

“Maybe some rope. A few blankets? I could get…a potion or two…nothing! Not even enough to avoid a [Scrying] spell!”

The Lizardgirl hunched over her desk, scattering the coins miserably. Then she hurried to pick them up in case one rolled between the cracks in her floorboards. She sat at her table, her tail curling and uncurling.

“I want to win. I want to win. But unless there’s a puzzle, I won’t have half of what the others do! If it’s Wil—even his clothes are enchanted! And Marian has her bow. Even if she can’t shoot arrows at people, she can still pay for…everything! Venaz probably made plans. I know Yerra’s been plotting how to win. And I can’t do anything.”

She was poor. That was just how it was. Umina wanted to cry, but she knew that would be stupid. The fact that she had gold to spend and she was Niers’ student was amazing. And she wasn’t poor. Not really. It was just that compared to the others in her class, she was. Most of them could drop ten gold coins on something without blinking twice. Umina couldn’t drop ten silver coins without doing a double-take.

“Umina? Hey, Umina!”

Someone was calling from outside. Umina looked up. Her room was very small, even by Lizardfolk standards. She hesitated.

“Marian? I’m busy—”

She tried to put away her coins. But her Centaur friend was insistent.

“Umina, I’m coming in!”

“Hold on—”

Umina swiped her coins into her pouch and hid it on her belt. Marian trotted into the room.

“There you are. Come on. We’re going to have a drink together. The Professor’s setting off tomorrow, and you’re going with him, right? Let’s talk with the others before that. They’re at the Stalker’s Pub.”

“I’m not that thirsty.”

Umina mumbled. She knew her tail and frills were drooping. Marian eyed her.

“Well, come anyways.”

“I don’t want to.”

“I think you should.”

“Marian, I really—hey!”

The Centauress trotted forwards and picked Umina up. Before the small Lizardgirl could protest, the Centaur had tossed her on her back.

“Come on! Where’s your key?”

She trotted out of Umina’s apartment, pausing to let the Lizardgirl lock the door, and then trotted down the ramp that led to Umina’s apartment on the second floor.

The presence of Centaurs meant that many buildings in Baleros were designed to accommodate them, which meant the stairs were often ramps and buildings tended to be wider and shorter, the rooms very spacious to avoid claustrophobia. Umina knew Marian hated her small room and so she didn’t protest. Especially because she was on Marian’s back.

Centaurs were like horses. Half their body was humanoid, but their lower half was horse. Except that they hated being ridden by people they didn’t implicitly trust. Anyone who tried it on a dare might get their head kicked off their necks. The fact that Marian let Umina ride was a sign of true friendship. The Centauress trotted down the ramp and into the street.

“What’s gotten you so upset, Umina? You were buzzing in class when the Professor complimented you on your strategy. And he chewed me out for my strategy.”

She tossed her head. Umina ducked to avoid being slapped by Marian’s hair. She hesitated, and then muttered.

“I don’t think I’m going to do well, Marian.”

“What makes you say that?”

The Centauress looked over her shoulder as she walked down the street. A few Lizardpeople waved at Umina and she waved back, trying to smile. She knew that they could tell it was fake, but at least they were out of range before they could come over and ask what was wrong. She had Marian for that.

“It’s just…I know you made preparations for the games.”

Marian nearly missed a step. Her hooves clicked on the smooth paving stones.

“I have. Not as much as the others, maybe. Why?”

“I haven’t done a thing?”

“What? Really?”

The Centauress was astonished. Umina shook her head miserably.

“I can’t afford to.”

“But you did so well at his other assignments. Like the adventurers—”

“You know the Professor normally gives us a budget. I use his budget. I can’t pay for anything else. Especially not traps or potions or…anything.”

“But if it’s just a few potions or a little ring, surely—”

“Marian. You know I—you know what? Look.”

Umina grabbed her coin pouch. She’d never shown Marian it explicitly. Why would she? The Centauress had never needed to ask. Now Umina shoved the pouch in front of Marian and opened it.

“Well, that’s not so bad if you—”

“That’s all I have. If I use that, I don’t eat, Marian.”

“Oh.”

For a while, Marian’s hooves were the only source of sound from the two. The Centauress blinked at Umina, looking ahead now and then to make sure she didn’t run into anyone.

“That explains why you don’t always drink with us. Or buy much. Cameral thought you were just bad at handling alcohol. I thought that too.”

“You weigh three times what I do.”

“Only three?”

That made Umina smile a bit. Marian picked up her pace.

“I didn’t know you were that tight on coin, Umina. But you don’t fall behind any of us. If anything, everyone else thinks you’re serious competition.”

“No they don’t.”

A hand ungently flicked Umina across her forehead. The Lizardgirl recoiled. Marian frowned at her.

“Yes they do. You got into our class based on pure talent. That’s more than anyone else can say. Everyone else paid more to get into this class, including me. You were in the one year program, and the Professor let you join our class!”

“I guess I did. But you’re all still as good as me. You beat me last time we faced each other.”

“Because you fell off your horse. That doesn’t count. You trounced Venaz three times so far; no one else has done that. My best is two wins in a row.”

“Well, I’m glad you think I’ll do so well. But it doesn’t change the fact that I can’t pay for any preparations. Or artifacts. Someone casts a [Scrying] spell, and they’ll find me in a moment.”

Umina flopped over Marian’s back. The Centauress hesitated.

“It’s not all about—”

“Say it’s not all about money and I’ll pull your tail, Marian. I know how much you have.”

“…Sorry.”

The two trotted along. Umina could tell they were entering the entertainment district of the city, which was wide and prosperous; Niers’ students liked to use their free time, and they often had coin to spend. Most of them, at any rate. Marian frowned at a few students as they passed by.

“Wil’s rich. Or rather, his family is. So is Venaz, that bastard. I mean, they’re both really rich. Wil’s a [Lord]’s son, and I don’t know what Venaz is, but he can toss around gold like water. I guess I always thought I was poor compared to them, but—I suppose not. My family’s not that wealthy, Umina.”

Umina resisted the urge to tweak Marian’s tail. Friends or not, she’d probably get bucked off for that.

“How do you have so much gold, then?”

The Centaur’s gait faltered.

“I…got a lot of support from my clan. Everyone I knew contributed money to fund me. I need to repay them.”

Oh. Centaur pride. Umina could just imagine how that went. Marian would be the pride of her clan. They’d probably all pitched in. Her tail wagged unhappily.

“Makes sense. Yerra’s got a lot of money from her family too. Selphids supporting Selphids. I wish I had that.”

“That didn’t happen for you?”

Marian was surprised, but she needn’t have been. Umina sighed.

“You know what it’s like in Lizardfolk cities. We like each other, but we’re not organized like Centaurs. Some of my family’s friends helped pay for me to get here, and sometimes I get donations, but it’s random. My people mean well, and they’re really proud of me being the only Lizardfolk in the Professor’s current class, but I’m just one of many, you know? How many Lizardfolk [Strategists] do you think the Titan’s taught?”

“You’re special. And if you don’t have a lot of money…what if we teamed up?”

Umina perked up, then felt a prickle of conscience.

“So we can fight at the end, Marian? You know how it works.”

“Well…maybe no one’s ever won as a pair before. But I’ll tell you; I’m not certain I did all I could to prepare. I have a few tricks, but if we worked together, my money and your brain—”

“You think I’ve got any fancy ideas? I only got to ‘buy an invisibility potion and hide in a corner’. Only, I can’t afford that. I don’t know what this year’s criteria for winning is, Marian.”

“Well, don’t give up just yet. Come on. There’s a reason why I wanted you to drink with the others. I’m paying, so try not to look so down.”

They’d come to an inn. The Stalker’s Pub, named after Three-Color Stalker, the rarely-spotted leader of the Forgotten Wing company. It was a regular haunt of Marian, Umina, and the other students, and the Lizardgirl saw there was already a crowd at their usual table in the corner. She slipped off of Marian’s back as she saw Yerranola, Venaz, Cameral, and Wil already sitting. They were drinking and trying to console Wil, who looked about as miserable as Umina.

“Marian.”

“Venaz.”

The Centaur and Minotaur greeted each other shortly. Venaz looked at Umina and waved her forwards as he dragged a seat from an adjacent table with one hand.

“Come on and sit down. One of you help console Wil. I’m sick of hearing him moan already.”

Marian looked over at Wil as she kicked at the Minotaur’s shins with one hoof.

“You’re heartless, Venaz. Wil, what’s wrong? Still upset about the adventurer teams? The Professor said it wasn’t your fault. Excuse me! One ale and some mulled wine!”

The young Terandrian noble was hunched over his drink. He did look morose. Umina accepted a tankard of ale as Marian sipped her wine. Wil shook his head.

“It’s not about today’s lesson. Well, partly. I wish that Gold-rank team hadn’t gotten killed. But it’s more to do with the Professor’s game. I want to win.”

“You and me both, pal.”

Yerra slapped Wil on the shoulder as she drained her mug. If Umina and Marian were a pair, Yerranola and Wil often sat together, although Umina wasn’t sure if the Selphid was just forcing her company on Wil. He didn’t seem to mind, and Cameral was often a seatmate of the two. The Dullahan had removed his head and was offering his head a finger-sized bowl to sip from. His head spoke as his body got up and left the table, possibly to pee.

“Everyone wants to win. But what’s troubling you, Wil? Umina, you look similarly dispirited. Unless I’m prying?”

His eyes shifted towards the Lizardgirl and then away, wary of intruding. Umina smiled.

“No, not much, Cameral. I’m just down about the competition too. I don’t see myself winning.”

“I do.”

“Shut up, Venaz.”

Marian glared at him. Wil shook his head, still looking troubled.

“I’m trying to win, Cameral. I realize that’s a bold claim especially with—”

He indicated his peers, who were some of the best in the Titan’s class.

“—as well as the other students competing. But I think I have a chance. And I’ve made…extensive preparations. It’s just—have any of you actually had a command, before? Outside of the Professor’s lessons? I know you have, Yerra.”

The Selphid nodded.

“Definitely. The Professor made me lead one of his wings on campaign one time. That was terrifying, right, Marian?”

“Yup. We did it, but we had a bunch of officers standing by. So it’s not the same.”

The Centaur sipped from her glass. Wil nodded.

“I’ve done that too. Only, the Professor’s always there, so I know that if I really make a mistake, he might catch me. I mean, no one’s there to stop you, and if you make a mistake, people die. Or you create a huge incident. Have you ever been in that position?”

All of the others, excepting Venaz, shook their heads. The Minotaur grunted.

“Of course.”

His friends gave him skeptical looks. Venaz glared.

“Do you think my people would have sent me here without practical experience? I’ve led more than one mission where people could have died or did die. It’s not fun.”

“Did you ever make a bad mistake?”

Wil looked at Venaz. The Minotaur hesitated.

“Once. I haven’t forgotten it.”

“How do you know if you’re right?”

Umina watched as the powerful drink Venaz was imbibing noticeably lowered in his tankard. Venaz wiped his mouth.

“I thought I was right. Why? Are you hesitating over some decision?”

The young man from Terandria nodded quietly. He traced on the well-worn table.

“I’ve made the calculations. And I’m sure my reasoning is right. But if I’m wrong? It’s such a big leap. And if it pays off? I could be set up. But if I’m wrong…I’ll embarrass myself and cause—”

He grimaced and took a long drink. No one pressed him for details. Venaz sat back in his chair, eying Wil. Yerra sipped from her mug.

“It’s not the end of the world if we screw up, Wil. Granted, I don’t know what your plan is, but the worst we can do is look like idiots. I’m fine with that.”

She glanced around with a quick smile. Wil drained his mug and waved for another.

“If only it were me, Yerra. Then I’d be fine. But this involves my family. You know I’m from the high nobility in Terandria?”

The others nodded. Marian shot Umina a quick glance; the Lizardgirl just kept drinking, listening. Wil sounded awful, which somehow made her feel better. He went on as he received and drank his new round.

“I’m a second son. Not as important as my older brother, but a lot of hopes are on me. My family paid a fortune for me to be here. I realize I’m not as gifted as…”

He looked sideways at Umina, and the Lizardgirl blushed. She opened her mouth, but Wil shook his head.

“I know I earned my place in the Professor’s class. But I still had to pay part of my way in. I worked hard to stay, but my family’s invested a lot in me. I can’t let them down. And if I embarrass them with everyone watching? What then?”

The others nodded. Marian patted Wil on the back.

“I know what you mean. My clan’s going to be watching the games too.”

“And my family. You are not alone, Wil. The thought of embarrassing myself—I’d rather strip off my armor and walk around naked for a day.”

Cameral gravely announced to the table as his body came back, wiping its hands with a handkerchief. Everyone looked at him. Coming from Cameral, that meant a lot. Yerra grinned uncertainly.

“I don’t know about all that. But we all want to win. No hard feelings if we lose, right?”

She nudged Wil. The young man stared into his mug. He had three sitting next to him. And it hadn’t been long since they’d started drinking! He shook his head again. Umina felt it was her chance to chime in.

“Wil.”

He looked at her. Umina hesitated, then tossed him her coin pouch.

“That’s what I’ve got.”

He blinked into the pouch. Venaz leaned over.

“Hmf. Well, that’s a relief for me.”

“You jerk.”

“Ooh, that’s tough. You mean that’s all you have to spend?”

“She means that’s all she has, period, Yerra.”

The others fell silent. Umina spoke before anyone could grow embarrassed.

“It’s not your fault. I’m just not rich. So if I go into this competition or spend my money, I’m taking a huge risk. I might not be able to eat, or pay rent—I might have to borrow from Marian or someone else. That’s my problem. If you’re afraid of embarrassing your family…you had a chance. Whether you use it is up to you. That’s what the Professor would say, I think.”

The others fell silent. Wil silently handed Umina her pouch back. Yerra smiled.

“Spoken like the Titan himself, Umina.”

Wil nodded. He got up. The [Lord] straightened his clothes, then looked at the others, a touch unsteadily, but with a hint of steel in his gaze. The same steel he’d shown when he beat Umina or the others on the training fields.

“I’m sorry for complaining. You’re right, Umina. I’m going to do it. There’s no turning back. I wish you all the best of luck. But I intend to win.”

He walked away from the table, then came back to put a few coins down. The others watched him go in silence. Umina wondered what Wil had planned; whatever it was, she was sure it was big. Venaz broke the silence by snorting and finishing his drink.

“Insecure. One wonders how he manages to pick his clothes in the morning.”

The others let out a huge sigh. Umina wondered if that was Venaz's way of being encouraging. Regardless, Marian still slapped his shoulder hard. He didn’t even budge.

“Didn’t he outmaneuver you in our sea training exercise, Venaz? And he’s brilliant, and I mean brilliant, at logistics. Maybe he knows something we don’t. Plus, you’re forgetting something.”

“What’s that?”

“You’re an ass. Do you know how hard it is to have you in class? You don’t respect anyone but the Professor.”

The Minotaur laughed softly into his mug. He raised two fingers, and a Dullahan trotted over with two more drinks. The Minotaur drained half of one in a breath, a feat that made Cameral blink, and then looked up. He surveyed his fellow students with the lofty, arrogant gaze, and then nodded slowly.

“I respect most of you. It’s just that I have to be better than all of you. That’s why I came here. To prove that. If I’m inferior—well, it won’t happen. Which is why I must win the Professor’s game of hide-and-seek the day after tomorrow. I’d rather it were a combat exercise. Either way, I have a question I want to ask him. And so I’ll win. Simple as that. I’m not underestimating Wil; it’s just that I’ll overcome him.”

“And you pull that confidence out of…?”

Yerra raised both brows. Venaz replied steadily.

“My very soul. If I could not, I would not be here.”

He finished his mug and reached for the second. The others stared at him. Umina sipped her drink. She wished she had Venaz's fire. Or his coin; he was drinking Firebreath Whiskey, a Drake favorite. That was expensive, and he was downing it in mugs. Yerra eventually stood up.

“I’m taking the Professor’s games seriously. And after this, I think I need to make a few more plans. You all should too. I knew this would be a big event, but after hearing Wil, I think it might be a lot more important than we thought.”

She got up. The Selphid tossed a few coins on the table and walked out the door. Venaz looked over at Marian and Umina.

“What about you two? Are your preparations in place? I don’t feel the need to change mine.”

Cameral sighed as he fed his head some nuts with a spoon.

“Money is a factor. I can’t afford to spend too much on this game, even if it’s important. I have spent some money, but I’m not confident I can win like Wil or you, Venaz. Thus, I am hedging my bets.”

“You too?”

All four remaining students turned. A Gnoll was standing next to them, mug in hand. Feshi gestured at the table, and Umina edged her seat back to let her slide in.

“Feshi? How long have you been listening?”

The Gnoll grinned.

“Not long. But I saw you sitting here and wanted to join in. Are you talking about the competition in Daquin?”

Marian let the Gnoll sit next to her in Yerranola’s seat.

“What else would we be talking about? How committed are you, Feshi?”

Feshi shrugged, her ears flicking cautiously.

“I wouldn’t waste my tribe’s coin overly much either, yes? But I have made some preparations. But are we sharing plans? Because I think that would be unwise. We are competing against each other, of course.”

Venaz harrumphed. He was displeased at Feshi’s entrance; the Minotaur didn’t get along with Feshi. He didn’t get along with Marian, of course, but theirs was a rivalry, whereas Feshi and Venaz clearly just didn’t like each other. He eyed the Gnoll over his drink.

“I’ll win, of course. I’ve been making plans. I’m warning you, if you get in my way, I’ll have to deal with you. I intend to ask the Professor a question after the games. As well as prove my abilities to the world.”

The Gnoll bared her teeth in reply.

“Minotaur might? One bag of Tripvines and you’ll be caught. This is a game about intelligence, Venaz. Cunning. Or did you forget this morning already?”

Venaz scowled. His brow darkened, but before he could answer, someone else called out. A group of students at another table, most older than Umina, turned around. There were two Humans, a pair of female Dullahans, and a male half-Elf sitting at their table. They were from one of the senior classes, but not part of Niers’ special group. The half-Elf looked at Umina’s table.

“So you’re all planning to win the competition at Daquin too. Tell us, does the Titan’s special class get a heads up about what the game’s going to entail this time?”

“All we know is what you know. The Professor doesn’t give us any favors. He wants a fair game.”

Marian calmly shot back. The half-Elf glared.

“Well, I’m glad about that. We’re intending to take first place too, you know. Don’t forget about us while you snipe at each other.”

He and his table turned their backs. Umina stared at the half-Elf. Venaz looked amused.

“Was that a challenge?”

Feshi grinned. She eyed the other students and spoke loudly and casually.

“They’re going to try and foul us up. Not that subtle, yes? I suppose the other classes are working in concert against ours.”

The backs of the other students stiffened slightly. Venaz just waved a hand.

“Rabble multiplied is still rabble.”

For a second, Umina thought the Dullahans would turn around and throw their drinks at him. But they just got up and left. Marian exhaled slowly.

“Venaz, you have a talent for picking fights.”

He shrugged, unmoved.

“They clearly wanted to provoke us. I simply baited their trap. Knocking a few candidates out of the race wouldn’t bother me unduly.”

“Should I check my bedding for poison, then?”

Umina joked lamely. Venaz glanced down at her.

“Not from me. But this is a competition. And I regard the stakes as significant. Don’t you?”

The others fell silent. After a moment, Feshi cleared her throat.

“Alright. To my purpose in coming here. I’m not saying we have to team up. But…there’s no rule against it. I have been speaking with the others. And the Professor’s only rule is literally ‘don’t kill anyone’. So our class has decided on a truce.”

Venaz snorted softly. The Gnoll frowned irritably at him and then went on.

“Truce. Everyone here doesn’t attack each other unless our plans get in each other’s way. We’ll have enough trouble getting past our pursuers and the other students. I noticed in the supply reports the Professor had us doing that there’s a big increase in the provisions at Daquin. At least enough for a thousand soldiers. Maybe two thousand.”

Marian sucked her breath in sharply.

“That’s going to be a nightmare to evade. Forget running about.”

Cameral shrugged. He’d put his head on his shoulders, perhaps wary of a brawl.

“It’s still possible. Daquin is a big city. But if you add that to whatever hunters the Professor brings in…sometimes the graduates bring in their own hunting groups. Especially if they’re big names.”

“What I’m worried about is who the Professor brings in to hunt us. He could call on any of his graduates. And he’s trained…how many [Strategists] over the years?”

Marian frowned. She scratched at the table. Umina sat upright. She’d had a terrible thought.

“Oh dead gods. What if it’s Miss Perorn?”

The others looked at her. Cameral shook his head. It wobbled on his shoulders.

“No. That would be…unfair.”

Umina looked at him. The Dullahan hesitated.

“Even for the Professor. Surely?”

“Think about it. She’s been teaching us this last month. If Fleethoof herself leads the hunt, how fast do you think she’ll catch us? She could run down half of us herself!”

The others sucked in their breaths. Venaz bit his lip. His crossed legs began to jiggle, and the table shook.

“I would…I relish the competition.”

“You would! I’d be scared hoofless if I had to run from Lady Perorn!”

Marian was pale at the thought. Umina was muttering to herself, getting more and more nervous.

“If we see her in the group going to Daquin…aw, no. I’m getting chilled just thinking about it. And remember what the Professor said? There might be a huge audience this time. This could be my chance to land a really big job after I graduate. Especially with Chandrar and the King of Destruction…”

“Are you thinking of working in Chandrar?”

Feshi seemed surprised. Umina hesitated. She hadn’t talked about this with anyone. She noticed the others, Marian, Cameral, Venaz, looking at her.

“If I get a really good offer…I’d be scared tailless of going up against Flos, but I mean, if I got paid enough, Feshi…”

Soon she’d be working and fighting actual battles. She’d seen blood and commanded a force before, but the real thing was coming closer with each passing week. Soon she’d graduate. That was terrifying. Niers’ game was terrifying for different reasons. Umina was breathing hard. Then she felt a hand grip her arm. She looked up and saw Marian. The Centaur smiled down at Umina.

“It’ll be alright, Umina. You’re not a full [Strategist] yet. And this game’s a game. Come what may, if we win or lose, we won’t die.”

“Not if we play by the rules.”

Cameral remarked calmly. Venaz nodded. He drained his last mug, then stood up. He looked reluctantly at Feshi.

“Very well. A truce?”

“If everyone agrees…”

The Gnoll glanced about. Umina nodded. Marian pointed at the door.

“What if Wil or Yerra says no?”

“Where’s the benefit in that? We’ll all be travelling together. There’s no alliance, but I say we’d all agree to a truce. Within the class. We’ll have enough competition and whoever’s chasing us to worry about fighting each other. Truce unless we foul each other.”

The others at the table nodded. They stood up, fumbling for coins; Marian tossed money down for her drinks and Umina’s. She looked at Venaz, then at Cameral and Feshi.

“We’re part of the truce, but Umina and I are working together. We’re going to win as a team. Umina, we’re going to make some plans tonight.”

“Marian, are you sure?”

The Lizardgirl held her breath. The Centauress gave her a wide smile.

“Two tails are better than one, even if mine doesn’t flex. I want to win this thing and ask the Professor…”

She broke off. The others looked at each other. Venaz, Cameral, Feshi…and there was Wil, Yerra, and all the others. Umina’s heart beat faster. Only one person could win. Unless she and Marian really did win as a pair. And if they won, they could ask…

Anything. Was it the Titan’s arrogance? Or did he really think this was a prize worthy of winning the competition? Any question in the world. Umina thought of all the things she could ask him. There were so many mysteries the Titan surely knew. Stories about him, about Baleros.

Like whether he knew what lay in the upper floors of Wistram. What the great treasure that the Forgotten Wing company had been founded on. Whether the rumors of him being cursed by Queravia during their battle was true or not. What level Niers Astoragon was, really. What his greatest and most powerful Skill was and what it did. The names of the most powerful people in the world. Their secrets.

Umina could ask about anything. Everything. But one question came to mind. Perhaps, if it were her, she’d ask a simple question. The question everyone wanted to know.

Who was his mysterious opponent he played chess with? Did he know who they were? Or perhaps she’d ask him if he knew, truly, how to become a Naga. Or a Lamia. Or if Foliana really did have a map to the world’s greatest treasure. Or what he had really thought of Velan the Kind, if he had really been friends with the Goblin King before Velan had gone to war. Or if he knew where there was any buried treasure. Or…

A thousand and one questions. And Umina couldn’t pick just one. If she won, would she ask about Dragons? Or something else. Would she even win? That was the question. Umina felt her heart beat faster as she walked out of the pub with Marian, and for the first time, she put her mind to winning. Truly and seriously. But she feared her fellow students had already laid deep plans. Still, there was always a chance. Umina set off with her Centaur friend in tow, making plans.

She still had no idea just how exciting the game of hide-and-seek was going to be.





6.22 D


The city of Daquin was one of Baleros’ many port cities. It wasn’t quite a metropolis, but it was large. Its harbor could hold as many as eight warships at the same time without being overcrowded; the buildings were by and large stone, a product of a nearby quarry and the city’s rich history.

It was also over a hundred and fourteen miles away from Elvallian, the capital of the Forgotten Wing company and the training school Niers Astoragon and his company of students had departed from. And that was as the sparrow flew, if it could even get that far without being eaten.

Two days after they’d departed from the school, Niers Astoragon, and a company of nearly four hundred staff, teachers, guards, and students reached the city. Over a hundred miles in two days.

It was a trivial journey. Not worth even mentioning. The students rode while talking to each other merrily, thinking up last-minute plans, forging desperate alliances and fomenting betrayal all while enduring lectures from some of the teachers riding with them. The [Soldiers] watched the roads. The staff ensured there was hot food and that each of the stops was as comfortable as possible.

Nothing stopped the small procession. And it was small. And the distance was still negligible. Yes, for another rider, it might be a heroic distance to travel in such a short amount of time, especially by foot. But for a Great Company of Baleros?

If you wanted to, you could talk about enchanted wheels, horses raised by Beastmasters, the Skills employed by the [Strategists] that made the road disappear, and the prudence of travellers who decided not to block the Titan’s personal mobile home and travelling vehicle when not on the campaign.

It looked like a doll’s house mounted on a pushcart, and it was pulled by a donkey. To a Fraerling, it was the height of luxury, and Niers could relax on the porch while talking with people riding across from him and do paperwork at the same time.

The only vexation for Niers Astoragon was the bugs, and his mansion-on-the-go had enough warding spells and enchantments to fight off three Trolls. But it was entertaining watching him shoot down horseflies with a bow and arrow from the roof. Yes, you could talk about all of that. But that wasn’t the point.

Two days later, they were here. Umina, Venaz, Wil, Cameral, and the others who hadn’t elected to travel via horseback piled out of the comfortable, open-roofed coach they’d been chatting in. Somewhat tensely. Because they were here.

Daquin. It wasn’t that impressive. Elvallian was three times larger. If anything, Daquin was a letdown to anyone expecting to find something better after wandering through the Titan’s city of cities. But Daquin was special. Here, the Titan’s game would begin.

The [Strategists] and other students took in the city for a moment. And instantly, some of the perceptive students realized why Niers had chosen this city for his game of hide-and-seek.

“Narrow alleyways. An unfortunate lack of an [Architect]’s oversight when constructing the thoroughfares. You could hold an army in some of the streets. Others are too wide to easily block. The buildings are stone and wood; many with multiple stories. Some have doors that connect between buildings: Lizardfolk design. No sewers, though. But there are a thousand hiding spots. Only a few vantage points either. See?”

Marian pointed out a tower to Umina as she trotted into the city. The Lizardgirl, stretching her legs, hopped after her friend nervously. She looked around, trying not to hyperventilate.

“Right. Right! It’s great for hiding. There’re a few high spots. That large tower, there—”

She pointed to an extraordinarily high tower nearly half again the size of the building below it. Marian nodded.

“Looks like an archer’s tower. Or a watch tower. Either way, you could put someone up there to watch for [Pirate] raids or armies. Set up a high-level [Sniper] or [Mage] with long-distance spells…nice defensive spot.”

Yerranola laughed as she strode into the city. She elbowed the Minotaur walking beside her.

“Too bad we’re not staging a war game, huh, Venaz?”

The Minotaur snorted softly.

“I’ve changed my mind. This is enough of a battle for my liking. I should have known the professor wouldn’t trivialize this.”

He folded his arms as he surveyed the city. His eyes lingered on the open harbor; it had a bowl-shaped opening with external watch towers and a sea gate that could be closed. It was open, but Umina spotted several ships lingering in the harbor. They bore the Forgotten Wing company colors; it looked like Niers had even taken over the harbor for his games. Umina gulped as she passed down the street, following the Titan and some of the teachers. They were walking casually while the Titan borrowed a shoulder for a ride.

“Hey. Look at all the [Soldiers].”

She pointed. The other students looked. Yerranola gulped.

The streets were full of Lizardfolk, Dullahans, and Centaurs. Some were Daquin’s citizenry, but Umina saw an entire platoon of Forgotten Wing company soldiers marching out to greet the Titan himself. Yerranola muttered an oath as she counted.

“I can’t tell, but if every street is like this—how many did the Professor put in Daquin? A thousand?”

“Two thousand. It’s not enough to cover the city by far, but it’s a lot.”

Wil appeared behind the others. His face was so pale it was nearly white, but some color actually went back into his face as he stared across the street towards the harbor. Marian tossed her head uneasily.

“All this for a game. The Professor really doesn’t do things by halves, does he?”

“Would you expect anything else? Where are we gathering? Or are we just waiting for the others to gather?”

Venaz looked back irritably. Umina’s heart skipped a beat as she looked back and saw nearly two hundred of the oldest students following them. Older students in the [Strategist] classes, those training to be officers—she saw dozens of eyes staring at her and turned hurriedly. Yerra gulped, for a second losing her semi-permanent smile.

“Ooh. I got a lot of evil looks just now. Was there a Gazer in the crowd?”

“Rabble.”

“Some of those students have been studying as long as you, Venaz.”

“We’re part of the Professor’s personal class. Don’t let them shake you. The victor of this competition will come from our class; of that I have no doubt.”

The Minotaur raised his voice as a pair of Centaurs trotted by. They turned and stared at Venaz. He stared back, unruffled. Umina gulped.

“Yeah, but Venaz—look ahead. Those aren’t students. See that group? I think those are graduates.”

The Minotaur turned with the others. They saw a group of fifty or so waiting ahead of them. The Minotaur hesitated.

“Ah. Alumni. Seekers?”

“No. Didn’t the Professor say they’d be competing against us? They’re competition.”

“They…could be trouble.”

Umina nodded in agreement. She recognized some of them. The group was mostly in their late twenties, having graduated only recently. But some had already begun to make waves. She squeaked as she pointed at a half-Elf bearing a curved sword at his waist and wearing some kind of bright, white-steel armor covered by an armored cloak.

“Isn’t that Tefret, the [Mage Captain]? I heard he graduated two years back! He’s supposed to be employed in Terandria!”

“We’re supposed to beat him?”

“Of—of course. Don’t raise your voice, Marian. He’s barely higher-level than we are—”

“He killed a half-Giant in his first campaign after graduating. You ever beat a half-Giant, Venaz? Venaz?”

The urgent voices of the students in Umina’s class were only a backdrop to the larger conversation from the rest of the Titan’s students. The Lizardgirl grabbed Marian’s arm as they walked forwards. She spotted a Dwarf and Lizardman walking past her, both looking nervous as well. The Dwarf was panicking much in the way Umina was.

“Grandfather’s beards! I thought we wouldn’t have to compete against graduates, Sillk! It was bad enough having to deal with the Professor’s special class—that lot have seen actual combat!”

The Lizardman was nodding. He was maybe three years older than Umina and quite handsome. She stared at him as he placed a clawed hand on the Dwarf’s shoulder, but his tail gave away his nerves as well.

“Calm down, Merrik. Everyone has a shot. We just need to win. The game’s not just about hiding. Anyone could be first—or the last one standing. We all have unique abilities. I have my class. You have your…beard. What if we—”

He caught sight of Umina staring at him. She smiled and waved weakly. The Lizardman, Sillk, paled and dragged Merrik forwards. She clearly heard the Dwarf’s voice.

“What? What? Oh—isn’t that Umina? Blast it. Is she marking you?”

“Me? No way. Steady. Let’s just calm down…”

The two hurried forwards after the Professor. Umina swished her tail. Somehow, their panic had reassured her. They weren’t alone. She looked around and remembered the Professor’s lessons.

Calm down. Look around. See the other expressions? They’re all nervous. From Venaz to the other students in other classes. Even those graduates—we’re all competing, but no one’s that confident. See the way Tefret is standing? Hand next to his sword. Even a [Mage Captain]’s probably intimidated. Even though this is a game. He wants to win. So you have a chance. Remember that.

And she was calm. Umina felt her mind, the cold part that came out in the middle of battles, take over. She breathed evenly; she wasn’t just a student. She had seen battle. The Lizardgirl looked around and saw a few students meet her eyes. Some other students were doing what she was doing.

The ones to watch were calm. A Garuda with red feathers gave Umina a nod. A Dullahan woman with a quarterstaff in one hand looked back fearlessly. And to her left, Feshi and Wil. The same eyes. They’d calmed down too. That was the first step in winning a battle. The Gnoll grinned at Umina, and the Lizardgirl grinned back. Then someone grabbed her arm hard.

“Umina.”

And here was someone who hadn’t calmed down. The whites of Marian’s eyes were showing. Despite her experience, the atmosphere or perhaps the numbers of competing students had gotten to her. Umina winced as she saw the Centaur’s hooves; Marian was giving herself away as she practically pranced in place. Then again, the Lizardgirl was sure she’d been just as bad a minute ago.

“I’m getting nervous! I know we prepared, but do you really think—”

Before she could glance towards the harbor, Umina grabbed Marian’s arm and gave it a squeeze with her claws. The Centaur yelped and tried to pull back. Umina didn’t let go.

“Marian! Calm down! This is just like a war game with the Professor. A skirmish. Imagine you’re against Venaz. Don’t give in to the pressure; that’s how you’ll lose!”

It worked. It might not have worked on someone else, but like Umina, Marian had lived through her introduction to battle. Being attacked by Selphids in training wasn’t the last ordeal the Professor had put them through. And he’d taught them how to resist even [Fear] spells in combat. The Centaur stared at Umina, then the Lizardgirl saw her breathing shift. She inhaled slowly, and her eyes flickered. The pulse Umina felt through the Centaur’s arm slowed. After a second, Marian patted Umina’s arm.

“You can let go.”

The Lizardgirl did. Then she saw the blood on the tips of her claws.

“Oh. I’m—”

“It’s fine. It shook me out of it. You ready?”

Marian ignored the small punctures on her arms. She gestured around, and Umina saw her classmates had almost all gotten control of themselves. Feshi was smiling and sniffing the air, Jekilt’s arms were folded, but the [Captain] was icy calm. He probably hadn’t panicked. Venaz was growling and making a fist. Yerra was grinning and slapping Cameral’s shoulder. Wil was checking the sky, the position of the sun—only Cameral seemed to be panicking, and even then, not as badly as some of the other students.

“Look. The Professor’s stopped. Looks like he’s greeting the [Mayor] of the city.”

“Can’t be the [Mayor]. Daquin has a sitting council.”

“Fine, their council, then. Is this important?”

“No, not really.”

The students had entered a large plaza. Marian pointed out the Titan. He and the teachers had stopped to talk with a group of dignitaries, four Lizardfolk and two Dullahans, who were presumably the leaders of the city. There was some smiling and bowing going on—all very relaxed. Some of the [Soldiers] accompanying the group were offering the council a gift. Daquin’s citizens, the soldiers, and students waited.

Umina kept glancing about. There were so many! True, a lot would just be part of the audience. But Umina hadn’t considered how many eyes might rat out the hiders to whoever was seeking. Marian looked around, using her height to eye the [Soldiers].

“Looks like this isn’t a group of elite soldiers. The Professor might have just called in one of the reserve units. He’s got a good mix; no one specific species.”

Some of the [Soldiers] were yawning, while the others were talking to each other. They were clearly part of the game; they eyed the students with amusement, and Umina saw they were equipped with clubs, truncheons, nets—the equipment to take down the hiders. She gulped.

“Those are going to hurt.”

“We can fight back.”

“You mean, you can. I get hit by a club, I’m lying down. I—”

“Miss Umina! [Strategist] Umina! Over here!”

Someone shouted her name. Umina’s head turned around. It wasn’t one of the students in her class, or even a student at all. Out of the waiting citizens of Daquin, she saw a Lizardgirl waving excitedly. Umina blinked. Then she raised a hand. The Lizardgirl shouted back as some of the students turned to look.

“Miss Umina! I’m a big fan! You have to win the Titan’s game, alright? I’m going to be a [Strategist] when I grow up, like you!”

Umina turned bright red. The other students were looking at her! Some were glaring, but Umina saw a flurry of hands from the crowd. The Lizardgirl’s mother waved excitedly as well.

“Miss Umina! Win for the Lizardfolk!”

“I want [Strategist] Xelic to win!”

A Lizardman next to the mother pointed at Xelic, one of the other students in the special class. Xelic turned bright red and raised a claw, clearly not sure whether to wave or not. There was a laugh from the crowd, then a cheer.

“Umina! Xelic!”

The Lizardgirl looked around. Daquin was a Lizardfolk city, so at least a fourth of the crowd was Lizardfolk. And they all began taking up the chant, shouting the names of one or the other Lizardfolk in Niers’ class. Marian turned to look at Umina with the students. Yerra grinned.

“Umina! I didn’t know you were famous in Daquin!”

Umina wanted to curl up under a rock. She muttered loud enough for the others to hear as she tried to duck her head.

“They know me.”

Venaz harrumphed, but to Umina’s surprise, he seemed vaguely approving.

“Of course they do. You and Xelic are in the Titan’s personal class. It’s a mark of honor.”

“But we’re attracting attention!”

It was true. The other students—and there were around two hundred—could scarcely have failed to notice the growing cheering from the crowd. They turned to look, and Umina felt more than one very annoyed gaze on her back. A few of the Lizardfolk not in her class looked rueful; a few even clapped along with the others, laughing. And from the gathering with Daquin’s leaders, Niers Astoragon and the teachers were turning—Umina went scarlet as her fans laughed and cheered louder.

“Marian, hide me. Or trample me.”

Before the Centaur could oblige Umina’s death wish, another voice rang out. A young Centaur in a [Laborer]’s outfit reared in the crowd and shouted loud enough to be heard.

“Marian Felthof! Win for the Centaurs!”

He bellowed, and some of the other Centaurs called out. Another called out Jekilt’s name. Then the air split as both Centaurs and Lizardfolk began cheering for the students they recognized. Marian raised a hand as it was her turn to blush; Jekilt raised one fist as the Centaurs stampeded in place. And the Dullahans in the crowd—

Didn’t cheer. But to Cameral and the two other Dullahans students, they were nodding, raising their heads over the crowd to see. Cameral bowed slightly, his face pale. The crowd cheered and roared, filling the air. They’d decided the games had begun and were cheering—even over the Titan’s greeting with the council. Umina blushed, waved, and looked at the other students. They stared back. Yerra waved at a Selphid wearing a child’s body in the crowd and muttered to her friends.

“We are so dead. They’re going to go right for us the instant the games start.”

Umina nodded with the others. Venaz was cracking his knuckles. He didn’t appear bothered by the lack of a Minotaur crowd cheering for him.

“I see Daquin’s citizenry is here. But where are the seekers? And the guests? My sources told me that in previous years, there could be a huge guest presence. At least a few [Emissaries]—even royalty from overseas at times!”

He looked around, dismayed. Umina scanned the crowd and realized Venaz was right. Despite the people in the square, they all looked like Daquin’s native inhabitants. No one stood out, and if there were another company here, she would expect to see them with a sizable escort. But all she saw were Forgotten Wing company soldiers.

“I guess no one’s coming? Maybe this is normal for them. Oh—wait, there are a few robes by the Professor.”

Feshi growled.

“Wistram [Mages].”

“You sure?”

The Gnoll glowered at the [Mages], a group of sixteen or so, waiting to one side and looking around. They were clearly [Mages]; if their colorful robes and staffs didn’t identify them, the aloof looks they were giving to the crowd would have tipped Umina off. Feshi’s glare was another hint.

“I am sure. I can smell them.”

“Looks like the Professor is greeting them. Dead gods, I hope he tells us the rules soon. Or—wait, if the seekers aren’t here, is he going to be leading the hunt?”

“Don’t jinx us, Yerra! Maybe it’s just the soldiers who have to find us and some kind of riddle.”

“Or—”

Umina saw a Centaur turning in the crowd, holding what had to be Niers Astoragon at head height. The Lizardgirl felt herself go pale. The Centauress looked back across the audience at the cheering crowd. And she stared right at Umina.



——



Perorn Sadiluc, known as Fleethoof, looked back at the source of the sudden cheering. The plaza was filled with bodies; most of the city had gathered to see the Titan in person, which was quite difficult even for those at the front. But they knew the game was taking place, and so they actually outnumbered the two hundred students and fifty or so alumni who had come to play in the Titan’s game. Now Perorn picked out a student who she knew by name from the crowd.

Umina, one of Niers’ prized students. A sharp mind and flexible one too, able to answer quickly and adapt to new situations with ease. She was standing next to Marian, a Centauress. Another bright candidate, but Perorn distinctly recalled Marian going red and stammering both times the [Galewinds Strategist] had called on her. It was a flaw in her Centaur students that Perorn had no time for. But perhaps it was unavoidable.

“Lady Fleethoof?”

The Centauress turned her head back. She realized the council member, a Dullahan woman in her late sixties, had addressed her. Instantly, Perorn ducked her head, embarrassed, although it didn’t show on her face.

“My apologies, Councilmember Felit. I missed what you were saying.”

The Dullahan looked horrified. She adjusted her head on her shoulders, bowing deeper than Perorn hurriedly.

“No, no. Our apologies for keeping you waiting. And for our citizens’ indiscretion.”

She turned a scandalized eye towards the cheering crowd. All four of the Lizardfolk members of the council looked appalled and delighted.

“So sorry! And it’s a pleasure to meet you. An honor, truly! You and Lord Astoragon!”

One of the Lizardmen bowed to Perorn and the small Fraerling perched on Perorn’s shoulder. Niers Astoragon bowed back, and his voice was a mix of politeness and cheerful informality.

“No offense taken, Councilman Ulli. We are grateful for Daquin’s hospitality today. Please do warn the citizens that they may be included in the games if they stay outdoors. The participants have been warned that dangerous weaponry and spells are off-limits, and we have [Healers] standing by, but accidents happen.”

“We will inform them again, and call upon the [Guards] to clear the streets. And we will not keep you any further, will we, Councilmembers?”

The Dullahan woman, Felit, bowed to Niers. She looked pointedly at the Lizardfolk and the Dullahan man. He nodded instantly; the Lizardfolk looked disappointed.

“But I wanted to ask—”

Ulli yelped as Felit stomped on his tail. He withdrew, unhappy, and all of the Council had to shake Perorn’s hand and bow to Niers before they withdrew. It was a ceremony Perorn was used to, and she smiled briefly and repeated each name once. Then they were gone. She turned her head to speak to the tiny Fraerling on her shoulder.

“Now the [Mages]?”

She saw Niers, a tiny man dressed all in blue and gold, grimace. He tugged the rakish hat he’d chosen lower on his head and grumbled before nodding.

“Ah, Wistram’s delegation. We might as well, or they’ll kick up a fuss. Before that, who was cheering? I couldn’t see; your hair’s in the way.”

He kicked at Perorn’s long hair, auburn mixed with strands of grey. Perorn sighed, but she turned to let him see. Niers grinned as he saw the crowd cheering his students.

“Ah. My advanced class has gotten the attention of the crowd. That might make them targets.”

“If you wanted them to be inconspicuous…”

The Titan shook his head.

“No, it’s fine this way. Let’s just hurry the ceremony up; we can bring in our guest soon. I imagine they’re getting impatient.”

Perorn sighed, but she trotted over to the waiting group of [Mages]. She saw them stand up and adjust their robes hurriedly as they saw her coming over. She spoke to Niers with a slight frown.

“And who is this mystery guest? You didn’t tell me.”

“If you had an ear to the winds, Perorn, you would have seen it. It’s obvious to anyone who knows what to look for. Sadly, I think only a handful of students know. Even in my class, I think only Wil figured it out. Did I make it too hard? But this is fine. He’ll be entertaining enough.”

Niers sighed. He looked at the [Mages] and shook his head. Hopefully, he glanced up at Perorn.

“What if I let you do the introductions, Perorn?”

“No.”

“They wouldn’t mind.”

She paused and glared at him.

“You’re the Titan of Baleros. You organized this game; Wistram’s here at your request.”

Niers looked huffy as he checked his clothing and hat.

“I didn’t invite them. I would have used our [Mages]. Very well. But I’m hardly impressive to most of them. You’re the one the Council was making duck eyes at.”

Perorn debated flicking him off her shoulder for a second. But it was true. Like Daquin’s ruling Council, the [Mages] stared first at her. Their leader, a half-Elf woman in sweeping, emerald silk robes emblazoned with purple blooms, bowed deeply.

“Lady Perorn Sadiluc. I am First-Mage Teura of Wistram, assistant to Archmage Feor and the leader of my small gathering. I thank you and the Forgotten Wing company for the invitation to—”

Perorn held out a hand and felt Niers nimbly leap onto her palm. Teura froze in the middle of her half-prepared speech as she spotted Niers.

“—And my deepest thanks to you as well, Lord Astoragon.”

The [Mages] jumped. They stared down at the Fraerling, and half of them blinked. You could tell which of them hadn’t ever met Niers before, but they all hurriedly bowed as the Fraerling strutted forwards and nodded to Teura.

“A pleasure, Mage Teura. I’m surprised you’ve left the academy.”

The half-Elf calmly addressed Niers as if nothing were amiss. Some of the [Mages] were openly staring, but the rest had composed themselves. Their eyes flicked to Niers. This was the Titan of Baleros. Perorn held still, seeing their eyes go to her next.

“It was at Archmage Feor’s request, Lord Astoragon. We could hardly ignore such an event, could we? Especially given our function.”

“Ah, yes. Well, I’m delighted to have you watch.”

Niers sighed, his tone and face suggesting he was anything but. Teura didn’t react; she merely bowed again.

“We will observe from the side and several points around the city without interfering of course. But if I may request that some of our members accompany you? For the best position.”

“As you will.”

The Titan waved a hand. Teura nodded and gestured; a Centaur came forwards along with another half-Elf. Perorn nodded to the Centaur, a younger male. He might have been in his early forties or late thirties, but he looked like an excited colt as he bowed to her.

“It’s an honor to meet you, Lady Fleethoof—and, uh, you as well, Lord Astoragon!”

He hurriedly bowed to Niers as Teura shot him a glare. Niers only chuckled, and Perorn, lifting him back to her shoulder, politely greeted the [Mage].

It couldn’t be helped. No, it was to be expected, really. They stared at her, the [Mages]. At Niers too, but in surprise. Because, after all, he was the Titan of Baleros. But when he didn’t try, when he just hid on Perorn’s shoulder, Niers was…a Fraerling. Small. Whereas Perorn was hardly equal to him in terms of fame, but her name was widely known as well.

Perorn. Fleethoof. She looked the part. The Centauress walked back, conscious of the eyes on her. The crowd was still cheering for the students. They were watching her and Niers, of course, but they hadn’t done anything but a few greetings.

In many ways, Perorn knew, they were letting down those who had gathered to see them. Unless Perorn was racing across the city, sword in hand, leading a charge, or Niers was…being Niers, they were disappointments. Almost as bad as Foliana, although you could argue she was everything you expected in another sense.

But Perorn wasn’t in the mood to race; she wasn’t a young mare anymore, her back leg hurt as if a storm were coming despite the clear skies, despite the ointment she’d used, and this wasn’t her game. She had been invited to come to Daquin; Niers had insisted on it for some reason. But she wasn’t taking part.

“I’m not taking part, am I, Niers? You promised me that. If you intend to trick me into performing, I will step on you.”

The Centaur [Strategist] turned her head to glare at Niers. The Titan of Baleros smiled, sitting on Perorn’s bare shoulder. He stroked his beard, smiling lightly.

“I did promise you. I’m attached to my unsquashed body, so I suppose I can’t cheat and add you.”

“It would be unfair. If I went against your students, I’d have half within the hour.”

Perorn felt the need to justify herself, to Niers’ smug expression as much as anything else. He grinned at her.

“Oh, really?”

She raised a finger warningly, ready to flick. She wouldn’t ever have done it, of course; Niers’ magical equipment would probably break her finger if she flicked too hard. The Titan sighed.

“I don’t need you, Perorn. As a seeker, I mean. My guest is already here.”

“Where?”

She glanced around, frowning. Niers smiled.

“If you had a spyglass and you were on that watch tower, you’d see him. He’ll be inbound as soon as I give the signal. No—I think he’ll choose his moment. You are listening, aren’t you? Give me a chance to mention Wistram first, and then you can come in.”

Niers raised his voice and looked around. Perorn felt her skin crawl. A listening spell? Or maybe Niers just meant there was a spy in the audience. She trotted towards the waiting students.

“Where would you like to speak? And you’ll do it yourself; I’m not holding you up while you speak.”

“There will be a dais. Ah. Here!”

Niers was pointing. On cue, a pair of [Soldiers] were dragging forwards the little wooden dais Niers liked to use to speak to people on a level. Perorn trotted forwards, and Niers hopped onto it. The crowd, murmuring, went still, and the students looked up.

Perorn saw the moment of disappointment. The Titan was a speck from afar, and he landed on the dais lightly. His teachers spread out behind him, some notable [Strategists]. Perorn felt most of the eyes go to her, and the murmur spread again.

“Fleethoof.”

And where was the Titan? Invisible. Barely noticeable. Perorn knew Niers hated that. But as the Titan walked forwards onto the wooden platform, six feet up in the air, he cleared his throat. And then his voice was louder. And then the Titan of Baleros really appeared. Niers spread his arms and roared.

“Citizens of Daquin! Thank you for your patience!”

His voice boomed down the plaza. The sudden sound made his audience jump. Perorn winced and wished she could plug her ears. Niers stood on his platform and looked at his students. They stared up at him.

“And my students, thank you for your patience. I realize many of you know why you’re here. It’s my custom to play a little game between my former students and current ones. Hide-and-seek. A children’s game, a Fraerling’s life.”

He chuckled as the audience shifted, not sure if they should laugh.

“This game is meant to teach you what it is like to be alone. Cut off from your forces. Isolated. But more than that, it’s a test of wits. Are you better than my former students? Can you seize victory from them and claim the prize? And yes, the prize is real. To anyone who wins, I’ll answer any question of your choice. There’s also wine; I enjoy a drink, so the lucky student who fulfills the game’s requirements first will share a few cups with me in my quarters at their leisure.”

The students stood straighter hearing that. Perorn saw many eyes light up. So it was true! There were rumors, but they hadn’t known. She looked at Niers.

Any question in the world. Any question at all, the Titan of Baleros will answer. Truthfully. She saw Teura and the other two [Mages] from Wistram shifting behind her, watching. Perorn knew how Wistram operated—she imagined that any of the [Mages] would have given a finger to be in the student’s place. Come to that, Perorn might have competed herself if given the chance.

Any question…the students fell silent as Niers raised a hand. He was tiny, but now you could see him clearly, even three hundred paces away. It was like he was larger, or perhaps distance stopped mattering. There he stood. A little man dressed in tiny clothes. With a hat. But you couldn’t look away. And he occupied your view. He stole the attention of a city. The Titan of Baleros. He should have been born a giant.

“This is the game. I’ve played it for decades now. With my first students. And though you’re hardly the last, I’m no less excited to see how you fare than I was the first time. More so today, in fact. Because you know what’s coming. Many of you have made preparations. Some of you may have laid traps, or forged alliances, or prepared artifacts, spells—some might call that cheating. I would not. You know what I would say: you’re preparing properly given the situation!”

There was a chuckle from his students. One of them, Yerranola, whooped.

“There’s no such thing as cheating, Professor!”

The Fraerling laughed along with the others.

“Only in chess, Yerra. But you’re right. In this game, as you know, I’ve set only one rule: no one gets hurt. And by hurt, I mean, no one dies or suffers permanent injury. You can knock someone out, put them under a [Sleep] spell, use confusion magic, illusions—I draw the line at shooting someone in the legs with arrows because accidents happen, and blood’s so damned hard to wash away—but everything short of that is fine. So cheat away. You’ll need to.”

He looked around. Now the air was vibrating. Perorn felt it, and she had to stop herself from shifting on the spot. There was excitement in the air. She looked at the students, many of whom she’d taught herself. They were all nearing the end of their time here. Some would become [Strategists], others officers like [Captains]. Many had the classes; they were ready to lead armies. To fight. And yes, to die. But they wouldn’t die easily. Some would become legends in their own right. And none of them would have made it here if they didn’t have the will to win. They stared up at the Titan, waiting impatiently. But Niers wasn’t done. He glanced up at the sky for a second. Waiting for something?

“As is customary, I have my seeker prepared. And it is a former student of mine. They’ll be taking command of my soldiers in the city. The Forgotten Wing company has about a thousand soldiers here, very happily being paid to take part in the game. Or paid, at least.”

He gestured to some of the soldiers standing in the square. There was a cheer from a few of them until a [Captain] shouted at them. Niers waved the [Captain] back with a relaxed hand. The soldiers had cheered for him, not the students, Perorn knew. They were, in fact, giving the students very expectant looks.

“My soldiers deserve their fun. They like money, but being paid to catch a bunch of students who might fight back and draw them into traps is not what I would call a fun vacation, even if they’re not fighting. So aside from the luxury of being able to crack a few of my best students’ heads—”

Another chuckle from the soldiers.

“—I’m offering them an incentive. For each student they personally catch and subdue, and they do have to subdue you, the soldier or group earns ten gold pieces. Per student, if that wasn’t clear.”

That provoked a moment of silence from the students, and a huge cheer from the soldiers. Neither group had been expecting that. The citizens of Daquin, caught between the conflicting emotions of worry and elation, decided to cheer as well. The Titan winked; you could hear it in his voice even if you couldn’t see it. From behind him, Perorn imagined his delighted expression.

“Just something to incentivize both sides. But I have two more surprises—”

His students groaned, but they had expected that. Niers scowled at them.

“Don’t be so upset just yet. Before my seeker arrives, let me first clear up a misapprehension you might have all had. There are, I note, very few guests outside of Daquin’s illustrious citizenry. Splendid as they might be, this is somewhat of a mediocre turnout given the past visitors who normally sit in on these games, isn’t it?”

There were nods from the crowd as the illustrious citizenry tried to figure out if they’d been insulted. Niers pointed around, and Perorn saw he was right.

Normally there were a lot of people who’d gather for something like this. [Diplomats], visiting dignitaries, [Commanders] of companies, and their entourages…but this time the gathered audience was incredibly small. Just a few [Mages] and some small-time mercenary leaders. Perorn wasn’t sure if the students were relieved or disappointed. Venaz was clearly heartbroken. Niers waited until the murmurs had died down, and then went on.

“Fear not. Especially you, Venaz. You have your audience. And they’re watching already. Or haven’t you noticed our guests from Wistram? They are here—”

He pointed back towards Teura and the other [Mages].

“—And around the city. They will be stationed on rooftops, in the streets, to follow you no doubt and watch the games. And if you hadn’t forgotten, that means something else. Or has Liscor taught you nothing? The King of Destruction? Ah, I see you’ve already figured it out, Wil. Umina, good, Merrik…try not to throw up, lad.”

As if he were in class, Niers began pointing out students in the crowd. The rest struggled for a beat to catch up to what the Professor meant. Then Perorn heard a gasp. She shifted and looked back at Teura. The half-Elf met her gaze, and Perorn knew that, for a second, her face had appeared on a scrying orb. Not just one. Or even ten. And not just in Wistram. But in every building with a [Mage] to catch the signal, in every mansion with a scrying orb willing to catch the spell that was sent out—



——



“Hold the spell.”

Archmage Feor spoke dreamily as he stared into Perorn’s face. Fleethoof herself. The aged half-Elf stroked his beard. She was older than when he’d met her last. It felt like a moment ago. And for the half-Elf, not much had changed. He was old. Far older than Perorn.

But she was a Centaur. He was part immortal. Feor closed his eyes. He remembered a fiery mane of hair, a Centaur with no limp who had fought with him on Rhir. It had been two decades since then. Perorn was in her fifties, and he—

“Archmage, we have over four hundred contacts. And more requests are coming in. Should we—”

A [Mage]’s voice spoke behind Feor, strained. He looked back and saw nearly fifty [Mages] of Wistram linked in the magical circles they’d drawn. They needed no tactile connection; they sat or stood as they pleased, and there was food and drink enough to keep them linked and more [Mages] on standby. Once the connection had been fully established, they could move about, even perform mundane tasks. It was only at this moment as the image of the Titan spread across the world that all those present struggled with the enormity of the spell.

“Broadcast the image to anyone who requests it. Add connections slowly. This isn’t a race.”

Feor spoke sharply, annoyed by the intrusion into his memories. He saw the [Mage] nod and turned back to the image in the scrying orb. Niers Astoragon had replaced Fleethoof. A tiny man, but Teura must have amplified her vision. He appeared in the orb, and Feor saw a flash of darkness as Teura blinked.

“There must be a better way to record the images. Perhaps with an artifact, as young Aaron suggested.”

Feor mused to himself. He listened as Niers spoke as crisply as if he were in front of Feor. After all, the concept of recording an image and sound wasn’t anything new. [Mages] had known how to do that for years. But sending the same signal across the world? Creating a…network? Even that wasn’t an entirely unheard of idea. But for entertainment? That was new.

The Titan looked around. He turned his head, and Feor’s heart jumped as Niers Astoragon met his eyes for a second. The Fraerling spoke, in a whisper magnified to a shout.

“The world is watching.”



——



From Wistram to Terandria to Izril. From the King of Destruction, staring into his marble-sized scrying orb, to Lady Magnolia Reinhart, drumming her fingers and having Ressa note some of the students, to Wall Lord Ilvriss, sipping wine in his home and watching with a critical eye.

[King] Raelt stared into the scrying orb his servant, Geril, had fetched for him out of their armory. It was slightly dusty, and his daughter was getting in the way.

“Jecaina, please move back. I can’t see.”

The nobles of Terandria sipped wine and scarfed down rich foods in the courts. Monarchs of lands not embroiled in war watched, some enviously, others with idle interest, others picking faces out of the crowd. The Quarass of Germina watched, drumming her fingers on her throne, a child witnessing something she had seen in the past, but in a new way.

The Emperor of Sands waited, reclining on silk cushions. The Blighted King stood in his war room, glancing at the orb only now and then, impatient, speaking with his [Generals]. The leaders of Baleros watched, the Seer of Steel with patience, the Bannermare with jealousy, and her mother with disdain. A thousand pairs of eyes. Then two thousand. Ten thousand—[Merchants] in their shops. Adventurers in their camps. Students in Wistram’s lower levels crowded into rooms. Cognita. Az’kerash. Greydath.

A Dragon slept through it all.



——



Daquin shook. The city trembled, and Umina’s knees went weak. She stared up at her teacher as he stood on the dais. Her eyes travelled to the [Mages] behind her. And through their eyes, she imagined a hundred thousand, no, a million souls were staring back. At her. At the city. At him.

The entire world was watching the Titan’s game. Umina began to hyperventilate.

The students shook. Some cried out. Others gasped. A few were just silent. Someone fainted. Umina looked to her right. Marian had gone still, her mouth half-open. Yerra’s grin had frozen on her face. Cameral was muttering.

“Of course, we knew it was a possibility. But we didn’t think—for a game? But if it is the Professor’s game—”

Umina looked up. Venaz had turned into a statue. The Minotaur gulped twice; she saw his throat move. Then he coughed.

“Hmf. W-well, it’s only fitting. Appropriate, even. No, the more who witness my triumph, the better!”

But even he couldn’t hide the tremor in his voice. Wil was muttering on Umina’s left.

“I’m going to do my best. I can’t be caught. I can’t fail. I can’t…”

Feshi breathed in and out, looking calmer than Jekilt. He was lying on the ground, passed out.

“I wonder if my tribe can see me?”

She waved a paw experimentally. Umina opened her mouth and felt her stomach roiling. Forget calm! This was—

“Attention.”

The word was like a bucket of water. Jekilt jerked, and his hooves moved randomly for a moment. Marian started breathing again; Umina felt her terror subside. Everyone looked back at Niers, students, soldiers, and citizens alike.

“Don’t be nervous. It’s just the world.”

The Titan laughed. No one laughed with him. They stared at him, a tiny Fraerling perfectly at ease. Then everyone remembered. He was the Titan of Baleros. And suddenly, the stage seemed fitting for him, if no one else. Niers Astoragon walked forwards. His eyes found his students. Not just Umina and his private class. All of them.

“If this is enough to scare you, how can you call yourselves my students? Look at you. This is the world. This is everyone. Your enemies. Your employers. Your allies. [Kings] and [Queens]. Monarchs. They are watching. And look at you. Why are you shaking? It should be with excitement. You may never have a chance like this again. This is your chance to show what you can do in the eyes of the world. This is my gift to you. A stage to create your legend.”

His words swept across his audience. They stopped shaking. And they looked up and realized he was right. They might never get a chance like this again. Umina’s claws clenched. She heard Venaz growl.

“My people are watching me. I will not let them down!”

A rumble went through the crowd. Niers raised a hand.

“Yes. A stage fitting for legends to be made. But that only applies if the challenge is appropriate. So. Students. Audience—across the world. I know my trivial game of hide-and-seek might not interest you. But a game is only as good as the players. On one side you have my students. But for a game worthy of this moment, for legends to be made, I call upon a living legend.”

He raised a hand, and Umina heard a drumbeat. It rolled through the air. The people looked up. Another beat echoed. Niers spoke over it.

“For this year, I have but one seeker. Although, I understand he has brought some of his company. To find my students as they try to hide, I give you one of my oldest students. He has come from the north.”

Thump.

A drumbeat echoed through the air. Umina felt it roll off the buildings. Where had it come from? Behind? Ahead? She looked around wildly.

“He won this game in years past. And though his company has many demands of him, he agreed to seek. You may know of him as the second-in-command to the Iron Vanguard. Equal in rank to the Titan of Baleros.”

Umina’s neck snapped around. No. She heard a laugh. Cameral was laughing. The Dullahan stared up at the Professor, but Niers wasn’t laughing.

Thump.

It was coming from the harbor. Umina looked towards the sea. There were buildings in the way, of course. She wouldn’t—

Thump.

Her heart skipped another beat. There, above the two-story buildings was something. A…piece of wood. And below it, canvas. No, cloth, dark grey. A sail.

But from so far away? And the buildings—the harbor! There was only one kind of ship large enough to be seen from this distance. A warship. And then Umina saw it wasn’t just one. She counted.

Six.

“One of my oldest students. Some may call him my finest.”

The Titan’s voice was faint, for once. The drumbeats kept echoing. Growing louder. A rolling beat. Like thunder. And now Umina heard something else.

Footsteps. Marching, the sound of hundreds, thousands of feet striking the ground in rhythm. No—not just heard. Felt. Was the ground shaking?

“Move back, soldiers.”

Niers pointed. Umina saw the Forgotten Wing soldiers near one entrance of the square reacting, grabbing at their weapons; they looked up at the Titan’s voice and backed up. Fast.

Here they came. A wailing horn blew. The drums began to beat faster and faster. And the first rank of Dullahans marched into the square.

Dullahans wearing steel. Marching five abreast, moving in perfect formations, in two columns. They spread out, moving into two wings at either end of the other side of the plaza, across from Niers. They moved in step, their armor gleaming.

Thump. Thump.

Like the beating of her heart, now. The drums pounded, drowning out all sound except for the marching Dullahans.

Then Umina saw a column of riders pass between the wings of infantry. Their spears were raised. They rode forwards, and the students backed up. The Dullahans marching on the ground suddenly stopped for a moment.

Then Umina saw some huge Dullahans stride forwards. Male and female, their armor as black as night, their heads secured to their bodies and covered by dark helmets. The Midnight Shield. Invisible in the darkness. Unstoppable in battle.

Elites of the Iron Vanguard.

And they flanked a figure who walked among them, at first invisible. But as he moved forwards, they spread apart, and his armor shone. Silver and brilliant. A color beyond chromatic. He carried his head under one arm, and Umina felt her heart skip a beat as she saw him. She was beginning to worry she had a medical condition. Well…her heart problem was called the Professor.

And like that, the drumbeats stopped. The Dullahans came to a halt. The two columns flanked him as the riders formed an interior wall, holding up their spears. The Midnight Shields passed underneath, and he walked through ranks of his soldiers. The students parted; they couldn’t help it. Umina saw him pass by as the Dullahans in black armor passed bare inches from her. She saw dark skin, hair as pale as ash. Eyes as silver as his magical armor.

Niers’ voice was quiet as he spoke.

“My students, please welcome your opponent for these games. Or rather, opponents.”

More and more Dullahans fell in behind him, filling the plaza. Not all Dullahans; here came a platoon of Lizardfolk. [Mages]. Adventurers, moving out of synch with the rest. Niers looked down at the Dullahan in shining armor who strode towards him. The [Strategist] came to a halt as his soldiers parted. He walked forwards and raised his head.

The Titan bowed slightly. Then he looked around. His eyes found the [Mages] of Wistram, pale and silent. The petrified citizens of Daquin. The waiting Dullahans. Perorn’s burning gaze as she stared at the Dullahan, Niers’ former student. And then Niers looked at his students. He smiled slightly.

“The second-in-command to the Iron Vanguard. My former student. A victor of this humble game in years past. You may know him as Tulm the Mithril.”



——



She knew he was coming. The instant Niers had said the Iron Vanguard, Perorn had known who it had to be. Their second-in-command. The [Strategist] who commanded the entire Great Company. The one answerable only to the Seer of Steel. The most legendary [Strategist] on the continent short of the Titan.

He marched with his army as they filled the plaza. Unlike Niers’ soldiers, who had stood to attention, the Dullahans marched in perfect formation. Their armor gleamed. But it was him that Perorn was looking for. She only realized he was there when she saw Dullahans moving.

The [Soldiers], the citizens of Daquin, even the students like Cameral bent as he appeared. They knelt, removing their heads like helmets, turning them up while their bodies bent down. To look. To stare. It was unconscious. And even among Niers’ soldiers, the Dullahans bent.

They couldn’t help it. Unlike Niers, he didn’t hold back his presence. He didn’t hide it. Tulm didn’t hide who he was.

There. A flash of metal. A color brighter and somehow deeper than silver, a radiance you couldn’t find in common metal. Magic, wrought into armor. His entire body was made of it. Worth more than any [King]’s ransom.

Mithril.

Tulm the Mithril. Perorn felt a shudder run through her body. Her back right leg screamed. She reached for her sword and then caught herself. Then she felt the crushing presence.

It wasn’t just the Dullahans. Behind the Titan, the ranks of teachers and Perorn felt it. Like a weight on their shoulders, a pressure. Compelling them to kneel.

There were [Kings] without this kind of force. Perorn looked to her side. A Lizardwoman gritted her teeth. She was a [Brigadier General] over Level 30, but she was still sweating. By her side, a Gnoll’s knees were buckling. Perorn growled at him.

“Steady.”

The others looked at her. They locked their legs. But as he drew nearer, the pressure grew stronger.

“It’s—like the last time I saw him—”

A Drake gasped. His scales were pale. Perorn stared at the approaching Dullahan. Exactly like the last time they’d met. She had to fight not to grab her sword, to charge him. She raised her voice, ignoring the drumbeats.

“Hold your ground. If one of you bends a knee, I’ll run you through myself!”

The others tried. But they were slipping. Out of the corner of her eye, Perorn saw one of the Wistram [Mages], the Centaur, kneel. None of the students were breaking, but it was close; he was only directing his aura at them! Perorn bit her lip.

“Niers.”

The Titan turned. He’d been staring at his old student. He saw his teachers, his people struggling. He stared at Perorn and then looked forwards. His gaze locked with the approaching Dullahan.

“Kneel? You are my [Strategists]. Don’t you dare.”

That was all he said. But at once, the pressure on the group behind him lifted. Perorn saw the Lizardman stumble and felt the weight lift off her shoulders. She stared at Tulm the Mithril, then at Niers. He still had a ways to go. Would it be appropriate to…?

No. But he didn’t deserve it from her. Perorn broke ranks. She trotted forwards to Niers and bent over to whisper.

“You called him. Are you mad?”

The Titan looked up at her. He spoke quietly; amid the beating drums, Perorn would be surprised if anyone else could hear, listening spells or not. The Wistram [Mages] were still pinned by his aura, anyways.

“Not yet. But you can see why I didn’t tell you who was joining the game. You would have refused. Foliana certainly did.”

Perorn’s hands clenched. She pawed the ground, staring at the Dullahan. He was looking at her. Her and Niers, his former teacher.

“If I had any notion—what are you thinking? That Dullahan? He’s—”

She bit her lip. He was Niers. If the Titan was the most famous Fraerling in existence, Tulm the Mithril was an equivalent existence. Niers raised an eyebrow.

“The Centaurs have you, don’t they?”

“Horseshit. He’s the second-most important figure in the world to Dullahans outside of the Seer of Steel. If he’s to Dullahans—you might as well bring Archmage Nailihuaile here from Wistram, and the Bannermare over here as well!”

“I did ask. They both declined. Which surprised me in both cases. You know how they like to cause a scene.”

Perorn glared down at Niers. He and his student were engaged in a staring match, and neither one was blinking as the Dullahans marched towards him. The students were parting in front of the Dullahans like sheep in front of wolves.

“You did ask, didn’t you? I shouldn’t have expected anything less. This is cruel. Even for you.”

“Why? This is just a game. A game of hide-and-seek. I just chose a good opponent.”

The Titan spoke dreamily. Perorn stomped a hoof, and he looked up. Fleethoof stared at the Titan. And Tulm the Mithril closed on them.

“He was the one who took away my leg. Why did you bring me here, Niers?”

Niers Astoragon looked up. A tiny man. Then he looked at Tulm the Mithril, leading an army into the city. Perorn saw him smile bitterly. And she remembered how he felt about his student.

She thought nothing he could say would stop her from leaving. From attacking or—but she was wrong. The Titan of Baleros looked up and gave Perorn a slight smile.

“To have a good day.”



——



They met in silence. The Midnight Shield slowed, and the armored Dullahans paused about twenty feet in front of the Titan. To get any closer might as well be an act of war. Trust only ran so far.

Then again, he was as dangerous as his escort. More so. Tulm the Mithril walked forwards. Niers waited for him. He could hardly leave his wooden pedestal. By his side, Perorn tensed. Her eyes locked on Tulm, and her arm strained as it didn’t quite reach for her sword hilt.

Tulm paid no attention to her. He was staring at Niers. He halted a few feet before his old teacher. Niers Astoragon gave him a bow. First. And it was a proper bow, not a simple nod of acknowledgement. It might have meant nothing to non-Dullahans. But Perorn and the Iron Vanguard watched. And there was an imperceptible shift in the ranks of the Dullahans behind Tulm.

Satisfaction. Perorn followed Niers’ example, gritting her teeth. Tulm waited a beat and then bowed back. It was a perfect copy of the Titan’s bow. Then he straightened and spoke softly.

“Are we equals, then, teacher?”

Perorn tensed. It was the same voice! The same tone, even. But Niers held up a hand, and the [Galewinds Strategist] held herself in check. He answered casually, in a tone that was almost playful.

“I don’t see how I can look down on you anymore. You’ve grown up, Tulm. Your armor’s quite nice.”

The Dullahan had put his head on to bow. Now he took it off and held it under one arm. His head spoke back, eyes looking Niers up and down calmly.

“So you’ve said before.”

“Did I? Time plays tricks on me. The last time we met was across a battlefield, wasn’t it? I didn’t congratulate you on your victory, then.”

“No. You did not.”

The two stared at each other. Niers bared his teeth. You could charitably call it a smile. He held out a hand, politely indicating the furious Centauress next to him.

“May I introduce Perorn? You recall her.”

Tulm’s silver gaze flicked to Perorn. She spoke one word, infused with over a decade of…everything. Her back right leg had stopped hurting. It felt as good as the moment it had before he’d hamstrung her.

“Mithril.”

“Fleethoof.”

They met gazes once. And then both looked away. Any longer and one would have gone for their weapon. Perorn had a curved shamshir. Tulm wore a mace made of mithril, enchanted to hit like a sledgehammer. But his true weapon was a halberd. Niers clapped his hands together as if neither Centaur nor Dullahan were imagining gutting the other.

“I see the hosts of the city are getting nervous. Tulm, as the reigning champion of hide-and-seek, I hope you can win without turning half the city to ash this time. Hopefully your advanced experience and levels means you can seek without destroying.”

He looked sardonically at Tulm, and the Dullahan turned his head back to Niers. He smiled coldly.

“It is not my intention. But tell me. Why am I truly here, then, teacher?”

The Fraerling gave Tulm a blank look.

“You didn’t read my message.”

“I read your message.”

“It specifically stated that this was my competition—”

Tulm leaned forwards. He raised his head to meet Niers and spoke flatly.

“You called me here. Over two thousand miles, with a letter sent into the heart of the Iron Vanguard’s mightiest stronghold with highest priority, by one of the best Couriers in the world. As if it were a declaration of war.”

Niers smiled.

“I hope it didn’t bother the Seer of Steel unduly.”

Tulm didn’t blink. He stared at Niers, as if his old teacher were a puzzle to be unraveled. With an axe.

“You had to know it would throw all of Baleros into chaos. The other Great Companies and half the continent waited to see what your letter meant. All this, for a child’s competition.”

The Fraerling [Strategist] shrugged.

“What can I say? I like my games. And you must agree, this time is different.”

He gestured to Teura and the other [Mages], who were trying to eavesdrop and finding their spells were unraveling around the trio of [Strategists]. All they could do was stare and let their viewers try to read lips. Incidentally, the price of those with lip-reading Skills or the talent had gone up exponentially in the last few minutes. Tulm shook his head with his hands.

“The world now looks through a hundred thousand eyes. Do you fear it? I thought you would rejoice, teacher. But you look disturbed.”

“I enjoy Wistram’s company, Tulm.”

“Ah. I see. So is it just for this that you called me? More sport, my greatest of teachers?”

Niers paused. He stepped forwards, to the edge of his little platform, and Tulm bent forwards. Niers smiled with his teeth until the two were very close, and then both turned their heads away from the three Wistram [Mages] slightly. The Titan whispered up at Tulm the Mithril while still smiling as the silent crowd watched.

“Tulm, are you trying to annoy me by calling me teacher every two seconds?”

“Are you going to continue avoiding my question? Teacher?”

The two stared at each other. Tulm spoke softly.

“If you want me to crush your new students in front of tens of thousands, I will. And I will show them exactly what the difference is between me and them. A harsh lesson, even for children. You could have sent Fleethoof against them if you wanted to test their mettle. I will not be so kind. You tempted me here, but I do not intend to play your g—”

He paused. The Dullahan stared down at Niers Astoragon. The Fraerling’s face was too tiny for anyone but Tulm and possibly some of the Midnight Shield to see clearly. And he was grinning. He was giving Tulm a grin from ear to ear, his eyes as wide as they could go, his teeth bared. Unblinking.

The Dullahan and Fraerling stared at each other for one long minute. Then Niers spoke, his eyes still opened as wide as could be.

“Go ahead and crush them. I want you to try.”

Tulm hesitated. He looked down at his former teacher. Niers stared up at him. And the expression on his face.

You could call it a smile. He spoke very slowly.

“Try.”



——



Umina had thought the Professor couldn’t surprise her any further. After the Wistram [Mages], she thought his reveal might not surprise her. But he had. He always did.

Tulm the Mithril. Here he was. Out of the blue, as if Niers had summoned him. A Dullahan wearing armor made from a metal rarer than gold. A magical substance. Mithril. The kind of gear a Gold-rank adventurer would jump for joy to obtain. And his armor was all made out of it. It wasn’t an alloy. It shone with an inner light. But it was the Dullahan’s face Umina couldn’t take her eyes off. As he walked towards the Titan, putting his head on his shoulders, she stared at his back.

The second-in-command of The Iron Vanguard. The greatest [Strategist] of the Dullahans.

Tulm the Mithril.

Umina’s head was ringing. In a trance, she saw Tulm bow slightly to Niers. She saw him look up at Perorn, and saw her reply. He was speaking—she didn’t hear any of it—it wasn’t meant for the audience to hear. Like everyone else in the plaza, Umina was transfixed. Then Tulm the Mithril turned and he squashed her.

Just like that. Like a bug. The Dullahan ran his gaze across the students and smashed them flat. With just a look. Umina knew there was an incredible gap between her and the Professor. But Niers Astoragon was the kind Titan of Baleros, her teacher. Tulm the Mithril was—

Terrifying. It felt like he was reaching into Umina’s chest. She couldn’t breathe. She was supposed to fight that?

Marian was shivering as she held Umina’s arm. Venaz had frozen in place, his arms still folded. Umina looked around, for anyone who could—she couldn’t meet the Dullahan’s eyes! Cameral was still kneeling. Feshi was growling, biting her lip, looking down. Yerranola was making retching sounds in the back of her throat.

And Wil? He looked sick, but he met Umina’s eyes as she glanced at him. He nodded slightly. He’d known! How? There must have been clues. The Professor had probably left hints, but only Wil had picked up on it. No wonder he’d looked sick. How was he going to—how was she going to—

Oh, Nagas save me. I’m going to embarrass myself in front of the entire world. I wasn’t prepared for this!

Forget hide-and-seek. Forget that it was a game. No matter what they played, it was unfair. There he was, standing at the head of an army of Dullahans! There had to be at least another thousand in the square! And him! Umina took another glance and shuddered.

Tulm the Mithril. One of the greatest pupils of the Titan to have ever left his school. He’d beaten his teacher on the battlefield. He’d crippled Fleethoof’s leg. He’d killed Goblin Lords, brought armies to ruin, and leveled one of the oldest Lizardfolk cities in the world in a week-long siege. They said he could destroy a Walled City if his company were to ever come to Izril.

They said he’d killed a Dragon. Dragons were just a myth, a distant rumor. But they said he’d killed one. And a myth stood in front of them now. The students in the plaza looked down. They shook. If Niers had shouted ‘begin!’, half of them wouldn’t have even known what he meant. All thoughts of the game were gone from their heads. Before the game had begun, they’d lost.

“Ahem. Thank you, Tulm. You know how to make an entrance as always. My students, citizens of Daquin, and…everyone else, I introduce your seeker: Tulm the Mithril. I won’t forestall the game any longer. Without further ado, let me tell you the conditions of the game.”

Umina looked up dully at Niers as his voice echoed through the square. He wanted to talk about the game? His voice was just a distraction from Tulm as the Dullahan stood on the Titan’s left, Perorn on his right; Umina couldn’t meet his gaze, but she couldn’t look away from his armor. It was hypnotic. Painful. Traumatizing.

“The rules are simple. You know them well. You hide. Those who are caught and subdued—firmly subdued—have lost. They may not rejoin the game even should they break free. To ‘win’ this game, one need only refrain from being caught. But that isn’t true victory, is it?”

Niers chuckled. There was no response. Without missing a beat, the Titan went on.

“To be the first to win this game and claim the prize, the rule is simple. You will all leave and have half an hour to hide within the city. My soldiers and the Iron Vanguard will lock down the gates and harbor. And indeed, they will continue guarding the gates and harbor thereafter, but the rest may be deployed by Tulm as he wishes to find you all.”

Stop talking. It doesn’t matter. Umina focused on Niers. She couldn’t get his voice out of her head. It was writing itself into her memory, despite the oppressive feeling of Tulm’s presence. Part of her whispered—was Niers using a Skill, too? If so, Tulm had the stronger presence.

“Pay attention, please. I will not repeat myself. And you will all be running anyways. Because to be the first to win, you must simply return here. To this area of ten feet around me.”

The Fraerling waved a hand.

“I’ll outline the area with chalk or rope. It needn’t be precise. But simply return here, by magic or air, force or treachery, and you win. Naturally, Tulm will attempt to keep you at bay as best he can. But the one who reaches me first wins. Simple as that. If no one arrives by sundown, well, there is no victor. Those who escaped till the end will have won a small victory, but not the full prize. Is that clear?”

It was. And Umina would have rejoiced before, because she could have won. But not against him. Silence fell as Niers waited for a response. And one came from Tulm himself. The Dullahan spoke softly, and like Niers, his voice was amplified.

“Teacher. Do your students have the heart for your game? It seems my presence has dismayed them.”

Tulm’s voice was dry, deeper than Niers’. And commanding. Oh, yes. Calm and cold precision filled every word, and it made the raucous sound die away at once. Tulm the Mithril looked at his old teacher. Umina shuddered. He was right. But Niers Astoragon just looked up at his former student and shook his head.

“What, are you suggesting I cancel my game, Tulm? I quite enjoy it. And my students wouldn’t have come all this way to forfeit out of hand, surely.”

He looked around. And his students tried to answer him, but Umina’s jaw was locked. She saw Venaz clenching and unclenching his hands, sweating. Tulm looked around. Umina stared down as the eyes swung towards her.

“It would be embarrassing, certainly. But I look around and think you overestimate this generation, teacher. Can they answer me? Even one? Without you to bolster their courage with a Skill, that is.”

He swept his gaze over the crowd again, at the paralyzed students, at the kneeling Dullahans. And Umina saw the flash of challenge in his eyes before she looked at her feet. So that was it. He wanted to embarrass Niers. If the Titan didn’t use a Skill to fight back, they’d be crushed. And his game would end. So he’d be humiliated in front of a watching world.

And it would be their fault. Hers. Umina strained, but she couldn’t force her head up to meet Tulm’s gaze. She tried. She saw blood running down Venaz's leg as his fingernails dug into his flesh. But he didn’t say a word either. And what could Niers do? All he had were words.

“They cannot answer me, Teacher.”

“They can.”

The Titan’s voice snapped in Umina’s ears, but it was fainter now. He’d stopped using a Skill. She saw him, tiny, in her peripherals. Tulm was looking at him. But Niers wasn’t looking at his student. He spoke loudly, without a Skill. With just words.

“Your trouble has always been that you rely on Skills and levels, Tulm. And yes, you have as many levels as any two of my students combined, most likely. So what? My students will answer you. Not for my sake. But because I’ve set the stage.”

Look up. Look up! He’s waiting for you! Umina fought. She heard a groan from Marian. But her neck didn’t move. Niers went on. And suddenly, his voice was burning. The lighthearted, conversational tone he’d used all this time was gone. He spoke louder, even angrily, like he would when he was shouting from his lectern, at Venaz, at her.

“A watching world. A secret answered. Victory over their peers. And you, Tulm. Who some call my greatest student. Tulm the Mithril. The most famous [Strategist] on the continent besides myself. Perhaps you don’t know why I called for you. It’s because I can’t attack my students without mercy. But you can. Is it unfair to put untried children up against you? Of course. But if life were fair, what would be the point of striving? So I’ve given them this. My gift. A challenge for them to rise to. If they cannot, they aren’t the brave young people I see every day. If they can’t, I should retire here and now. Because they can.”

She still couldn’t do it. Umina was biting down so hard she felt her lip bleeding. Niers’ voice sang in her ears as Tulm pressed down.

“My students exist to surpass me. One of them will, someday. They surprise me every day. I refuse to believe levels would hold them back. I refuse to believe a simple Skill could keep them silent. When my students graduate, they will take their places on the battlefield. And when they fight, they will take their opponents to the depths of hell, be it an Archmage, a Lord of the Wall, the King of Destruction, or Tulm the Mithril himself.”

Umina looked up. Shakily, past Tulm. Her ears were ringing, but she heard Niers above it. She would have heard him if she were deaf. He was looking around at his students. From face to face. He was looking straight at Umina.

“You are afraid. I would expect nothing less. You’re not fools. But don’t let history stop you. Don’t let names or fame hold you back. You may be students, but you’re my students. Someday you’ll clash with legends. Someday, perhaps, you’ll be my opponent. And that moment will be the same as this. When that day comes, there’s no excuse I can give you, or you to me. There’s no saying that you weren’t ready. So. Here is your opponent. Do you have the courage to face him?”

Click. Umina felt her teeth meet. She spat blood. Then she stood straighter. She drew in a breath of air. But he shouted before her.

“I do, Professor!”

Wil raised his hand. He bellowed the words at the Dullahan soldiers, at the others, and at Tulm the Mithril. That bright gaze fixed him, but Wil didn’t step back. He was only looking at Niers.

“I can. Give me the chance and I’ll win.”

“Me too!”

Umina shouted. She saw the silver eyes staring at her, but she stared at the mithril armor defiantly.

“In a game of hide-and-seek. In a war game. Across a chess board. I’ll take on any opponent. I’ve played the Titan himself and won.”

A murmur ran through the crowd. Then a roar. Umina jumped as Venaz raised both arms.

“I am Venaz, from the House of Minos! I challenge you, Tulm the Mithril! I’ll take the Titan’s prize, my oath on it! Bring forth the entire Iron Vanguard and I swear our class will still claim victory.”

He pointed towards the Dullahan. Tulm blinked. And like that, the spell broke. Marian reared up, and uttered a war cry that came from both lines of her heritage. Feshi howled. And the students stood up and screamed their answer from a thousand throats.

Umina was already yelling. Venaz bellowed louder than the others, but Marian was shouting next to him. The people of Daquin watching from their windows and roofs shouted as well. Centaurs stomped their hooves, and Lizardfolk shrieked. Dullahans pounded their armored hands together. They were shouting down at the students. At her. Umina realized she was raising a hand. And the Titan was looking at her.

Wil. Umina. Venaz. Marian. Feshi. Jekilt. Yerranola. Cameral. Xelic. Merrik. Tefret. Over two hundred and fifty students shouted and cheered. And Tulm the Mithril watched. At last, he turned to Niers.

“So it seems we have a game. But tell me, teacher. You told me I had a reason to participate. And I see no opponent worthy of my striving.”

His gaze passed contemptuously over Venaz. The Minotaur roared and slapped his chest. The Dullahan was speaking loudly, but even his voice was nearly drowned out by the cheers. They were endless. And despite Tulm’s presence, he had no sway over the crowd.

His armor shone. And he’d brought an army to hunt for him. But the Titan of Baleros had called them his students. He had dared them. And for him, they could at least hide from an army.

In this moment, if he shouted ‘charge’, they would have fought the Iron Vanguard there and then. But the Titan wasn’t so bloodthirsty. This was just a game.

Yet the stakes had never been higher. They were for pride. Pride in their teacher, and truth. And then the Titan added to them. He spoke, his voice echoing down the winding streets and across the port waters.

“That is quite true, Tulm. And I suspect there are few things you could ask that the Seer of Steel wouldn’t be able to answer. Or you yourself. So this year, and in honor of our audience…”

He shot a sardonic glance at the [Mages] from Wistram.

“…and yourself, of course, I’ve decided to add another incentive. To the student who reaches me first, in addition to the usual reward, I will give them a suitable gift from my vaults. A prize unlike any other, from the Titan of Baleros. My oath on that. And if you’re not satisfied, you may take any sword, and piece of armor, any artifact you wish short of—”

His words cut off at the second roar of sound. Umina gaped. Any weapon? Short of one of the best artifacts. But the Forgotten Wing company had an armory any Gold-ranked team, no, any Named Adventurer might drool over! And a personal gift?

Tulm’s arms were folded.

“And if I catch them all? Before sunset?”

He glanced pointedly up at the sun, still rising in the sky. Niers smiled.

“If no student reaches me, then I suppose I’ll owe you a gift.”

He met Tulm’s eyes again. The Dullahan stared at his teacher. Then he turned his back.

“And that justifies my journey? The presence of my company?”

He gestured at the waiting soldiers. Niers spoke with a silkily smooth voice at the back of Tulm’s head.

“Of course. It will be suitable. Even for Tulm the Mithril. A gift even the Seer of Steel would envy. You have my word on that. If you wish, I’ll give it to you publicly. With a bow wrapped around it.”

Tulm turned his head on his shoulders. This time, the silence was profound. Everyone’s mind was racing.

What kind of gift would impress Tulm the Mithril? And then a thought hot on the heels of that—what will I get if I win?

Niers shattered the silence with a clap of his hands. Which, magnified by his spell, was like the sound of rocks shattering. The crowd jumped as the Titan faced forwards.

“Well then. Enough wasting time. Dead gods, we’ve spent far too long on this. Everyone knows the rules. Students! You have half an hour to hide. No one else is allowed to move from this plaza. This game ends at sunset. Or when someone reaches me. Begin.”

This time, Niers didn’t bother clapping his hands. He just stood in place. The students stared at him. The Titan’s eyes twinkled.

“That’s seven seconds already elapsed. My, you’re all confident.”

And then they realized the game had begun. Umina whirled. She saw Venaz glance at the sky.

“Nearly…nearly…damn!”

The students nearest the edge of the plaza were already turning and running. Umina saw a Centaur leap over the heads of the crowd nearest him; a Garuda took wing. The Lizardman she’d spotted earlier slipped past a line of Dullahans; his Dwarf friend didn’t bother and charged through, knocking several to the ground.

“Run for it!”

Yerranola was the first to run in her class. She leapt up, bounding up over the heads of the other students and then sprinting faster than Umina had ever seen her go in her life! The Selphid had to be Rampaging! Already?

“Watch for the Dullahan [Mages] everyone! I think—haekcho!”

Feshi bounded after Yerranola. She was sneezing hard, and Umina saw one of the Dullahans was pointing at their group. The others looked like they were waving their hands. A spell?

“No spells during the hiding phase!”

Niers bellowed, and the Dullahans stopped at once. His words provoked the rest of the students to take off. And desperate alliances were forming even in the chaos.

“Cameral, team up!”

A Dullahan girl snapped at Cameral. He fastened his head to his shoulders as he ran, thudding past Umina. She looked around desperately; now everyone was shoving to get free. Venaz hurled a Drake aside as he ran for the nearest alley. Umina’s head searched left and right. Where was—

“Marian!”

She shouted desperately. Someone seized her from behind. Umina shouted, but Marian flipped the Lizardgirl onto her back.

“Hold on!”

The Centauress had done a quick circle to gain momentum. Now she galloped ahead at full speed. The students ahead of her could get out of the way or be trampled. The Centaur shouted as Umina clung to her midriff.

“[Rapid Retreat]!”

She accelerated. Umina felt wind blast her in the face and saw the Centaur shooting towards a group of Dullahans from the Iron Vanguard. They took one look at her and scattered, abandoning their formations. Marian raced down a side street, a three hundred foot dash in three and a half seconds. She slowed as her Skill ended—but the ground still flashed past Umina. She screamed at Marian.

“Go straight! We’re going to the harbor!”

The Centaur raced ahead. A few students made it onto their street as Marian raced down it; some stopped where they were, looking for nearby places to hide. Others took off, going as fast as Marian and Umina. But not too far. Because victory lay behind them. It waited with the Titan as he laughed, waiting for his students to best the Dullahan standing to his left. His students ran with his words echoing in their ears.

They would be back. And they were going to win.



——



“It seems I’ve fallen into your trap once again, Professor. This feels…nostalgic.”

Tulm the Mithril stared at the flurry in the courtyard. He spoke absently, bitterly. Almost…fondly.

The Titan paused in waving at some of his staff to look back at Tulm. But the gaze the two shared was anything but nostalgic. Niers reached into his bag of holding and pulled out a tiny folding chair. He sat down on it.

“You don’t say.”

The Dullahan slowly turned his head on his neck to stare at his former teacher. He stared at the chair. Niers pulled a stool out of his bag of holding and put his feet up. Behind him, the [Mages] of Wistram stared, capturing the scene for the world to see. The Titan, the running students. It wasn’t a war. It wasn’t important, but at the same time, it was.

The world watched. Perorn was glad none of the [Mages] were looking at her, though. The huge smile on her face was uncharacteristic as it was smug. Tulm glanced at the Centauress, then slowly put his head on his shoulders.

“My own fault. But this game is still mine. If you want a winner—I will win. I have three thousand soldiers if you permit me to command your forces.”

“I do. And pull the crew off those six warships while you’re at it. Fill the streets if you want to. Use [Mages]—I’m sure you can get some to teleport in to help you out. Excuse me, I asked for a lime drink. Something properly sour. No sugar, thank you.”

The Fraerling frowned at Councilman Ulli, who’d hurried over with the drink in one claw. The Fraerling frowned at the drink, which was in a thimble and still the size of a bucket for him.

“Terribly sorry, Lord Titan! I’ll get you, uh—a fresh lime right away!”

The Lizardman turned red. Niers waved at him genteelly.

“It’s not a race, Councilman. Oh, and while you’re at it—a Centaur’s seat for Perorn unless she wants to watch somewhere else. And a drink? Tulm, will you have anything?”

“No.”

“And I’ll watch somewhere else. Best of luck, Mithril.”

Perorn stared at Tulm’s back. He ignored her, and the Centauress stormed off. Niers waited for his lime, reclining and watching the Dullahan. Tulm spoke absently at last.

“If Fleethoof cheats—”

He turned and raised a hand. The thimble bounced off Tulm’s palm, and the sweet limeade trickled down the mithril. Tulm shook his hand. Niers sat back down. Tulm waited a beat.

“If Perorn or any of your people cheat, the world will see. But you brought those [Mages] here for that reason, didn’t you? I think I’ll decline your offer. My ships stay where they are and my crews likewise. None of your students will leave the harbor or the gates. I intend to catch them all, and the water won’t hide them. First Armor Captain.”

“Sir.”

A Dullahan, one of the Midnight Shields, stepped forwards and pounded on their breastplate. It was impossible to tell whether they were male or female with their helmet on. Tulm nodded towards the ranks of Dullahans.

“Send word to the fleet. Every [Soldier] aside from the ship crews is to disembark once the thirty minute window has passed. Each warship will hold the harbor entrance and allow no one through; I want spotters watching the waters. The [Mages] will begin setting up wards—”

He hesitated and then glanced at the Wistram [Mages] before eying Niers briefly. The Titan looked up from accepting a second drink.

“Thimble? I have no idea, Ulli. You know where they get to. Maybe it fell down? Thank you. Nice and sour.”

The mithril-clad Dullahan frowned at the Wistram [Mages]. They were edging closer, and a few more were hovering on the outsides of the plaza.

“Focus on anti-teleportation spells at once. I want each entrance to the plaza sealed and watchers on the rooftops. [Mages] with net spells. No one will reach the Titan by air, ground—have a [Mage] begin sending signals through the earth to check for tunnels. And each squad is to activate anti-invisibility and anti-illusion countermeasures…”

He stared as Niers sat back. There was a bowl of candied nuts on his left, enough to feed the Titan for about a week, and some sliced fruits on his right. Niers leaned further back in his chair and sighed. Then his head came up, and he blinked at Tulm.

“What? I’m waiting for the game to start. Don’t worry, I’ll let you know when you can leave the plaza. Want some snacks? I could play a game of chess to pass the time.”

He grinned. Tulm stared at him expressionlessly, then turned. The Dullahan [Captain] followed him, already giving out orders. Niers drew his sword, sliced off some banana on his right, and took a huge bite. He sipped at his drink, sighed, and looked around.

The Iron Vanguard was spreading out in formation, and his soldiers were hopping to Tulm’s orders. The citizens of Daquin were being moved out of the way by the seekers, and some had gone to their houses. Others were staying out for a better look, even if it meant being clubbed by accident. Niers raised his voice and shouted as he spotted some of Wistram’s [Mages] casting spells he recognized.

“No [Mage] leaves the plaza until the time’s up! You with the wand over there! Try to leave with that [Invisibility] spell on and I will have you tarred and feathered as a sideshow!”

The [Mage] jumped, and the citizens of Daquin cheered. Niers sat back as the [Mage] hurried out of the crowd. He looked around and caught Tulm staring at him again. Niers waved. The Dullahan’s expression never changed, but he turned around. And what was Perorn doing? Talking with what looked like a [Merchant]. Why?

Ah. Bookkeeping. The Titan waved a hand and made a signal; one of his Selphid [Spymasters] approached, with a sugar cube.

“Get me our [Diviner]. We did bring one, didn’t we? I want to know the odds as they come in, and any conversations we can intercept. Oh, and get me the good wine. My stock, and don’t let anyone stop you. Perorn can have it over my dead body.”

“Any bets, sir?”

“I’m afraid Wistram would notice. No. Just interception.”

The [Spymaster] nodded and vanished. Niers laughed. He sat back, had a drink, and gestured for Teura to approach. No chair for her, though; she could bloody well stand. The Titan smiled as he watched the world focus in on Daquin and his students. It was going to be a very fun day.

For him, at least.



——



Luan stared at the city in the distance. He checked his map again, but Venaz had told him the name enough times. The City Runner, or rather City [Rower], stretched in his small single scull. He was already limbered up, to be honest; he’d gotten up early, had a stamina potion, and rowed out here from the neighboring port city hours ago. He’d been waiting all this time to go in.

Now Luan almost wished he’d ignored Venaz and gone in sooner. Because the sleepy harbor of Daquin had exploded with activity. First a few galleys had appeared, and one larger ship, and had sailed into the harbor. Not too bad; it could have been a [Merchant] group, but Luan had spotted armor on too many of the crew. But he would have still bet he could escape all of them if need be. And he was going in, so what was the worry?

The worry was the six gigantic warships that had appeared out of the blue and charged into the harbor. Each one was massive, and their crews were all Dullahan. Luan had been prepared to row for the horizon, but there hadn’t been any sounds of fighting. Just a few horns, those damned loud drums, and now…silence.

But something was going on in the city, Luan was certain. The South African man checked his heartbeat. Too fast, but he was nervous. Again he debated cancelling, but his reputation was on the line. So were fifty gold coins. So he just held his breath and checked the sun.

“Almost time. Almost time…”

The little bag of holding was clasped firmly between his knees. Luan eyed the warships. They’d set up a perimeter around the harbor. That was clear enough. And Venaz had warned him something like this might happen. Well, Luan had a few options…the City Runner held his breath. Then he checked the sun, swore, and began to paddle forwards. Slowly at first.

“Well, here goes. Venaz, friend, if I die today…”

He looked down at the bright, golden names on his arm.

“You’d better have that gold ready.”

Then he began rowing for Daquin. Just in time to see the Centaur and Lizardgirl racing across the docks.



——



Umina and Marian raced down the street. They’d taken a circuitous route, having gone the wrong way out the plaza first. But they were still galloping along, or the Centauress was. Umina clung to Marian’s torso as the Centaur slowed from their sprint, but she was still moving fast.

Ahead of them were only a few students; most weren’t heading their way, down a slope towards the harbor. Obviously, the Iron Vanguard would be coming from that direction, but a few had taken the risk. Intelligently or not. Umina saw a Drake and Gnoll [Tactician] duo she recognized running down the street. The Drake was screaming at her friend.

“There should be a cover to the sewers somewhere on the street! Or a drain at least! Where is it? Is it covered beneath the dirt, maybe? Help me find it!”

The Gnoll shouted at her partner’s back.

“There aren’t any sewers, you idiot! That was your big plan!? I thought you had a brilliant idea!”

The Drake was horrified.

“No sewers? What kind of a primitive city is—”

Marian galloped past them. Umina peered over her shoulder.

“Don’t go too fast! There’s an incline! And take a left down this street! To the port!”

Marian turned her head, breathless, as she galloped.

“We’re sticking to the plan? But the Iron Vanguard’s ships—”

“So what? There are still others in port! Left!”

The Centaur swerved. The two broke out of the street and onto the wooden pier. Umina swore as she saw the Iron Vanguard’s black vessels and grey sails. There were distant figures milling about on the decks.

“Oh, hells, Umina! They can see us from the harbor!”

“Back into the buildings, then! Use the smaller ships at the docks as cover! Pretend we’re going back!”

Umina dropped from Marian’s back. The two raced back behind a building and then came out, low to the ground, blocking their view of the Iron Vanguard’s warships with one of the smaller trading vessels anchored at the docks.

Marian panted; her withers were streaked with sweat. On a Centaur, that meant the part of her body where her humanoid torso met the horse part of her body. Centaurs had weird anatomy. But Marian had raced across the city faster than almost anyone else, proving why her species was unmatched on the plains. [Knights] on warhorses were dust compared to Centaurs on the charge.

“This had better work, Umina. We’ve got—”

“Twenty minutes left. We’re fine, Marian. We can do our fallbacks! Just hold on—hey! Hey, up there!”

The Lizardgirl had led them to the side of a ship. Now she called up cautiously. There was a second, then a scuffle, and then a [Sailor] poked his head over the side. His eyes widened as he saw her.

“What’re you doing? And what in the name of krakens is going on in the city!”

“Haven’t you heard? The Titan’s game of hide-and-seek is going on!”

Umina hissed up at him as Marian gulped for air. She felt silly putting it that way, but the [Sailor]’s eyes widened.

“Of course, we heard about that, but—Captain! Vexula! Ronny! Get over here!”

More [Sailors] appeared on the edge of the ship. Umina wished they wouldn’t be so obvious about it. They blinked down at the two [Strategists] huddled up against the side of their ship. One of them narrowed her eyes.

“Hang on. Don’t I know you…? What’s this about the city? We know the Titan’s having some kind of game, but where did those warships come from? That’s the Iron Vanguard! Is the city under siege or something?”

“No. Tulm the Mithril is taking part.”

“What?”

Umina shot a glance over their shoulder. Every second they spent…she waved at the [Sailors], one of whom looked like a [Captain].

“Hey. We’ve got a favor to ask. My friend and I are trying to win this thing, but the Iron Vanguard’s going to be unloading soldiers in moments and searching the city! Mind if we hide in your ship? Please?”

Marian stared at Umina. She mouthed silently, something along the lines of ‘that’s your plan?’ But the [Sailors] just blinked at each other. Then one nodded.

“Of course! Let us get a rope! We’ll haul both of you up on the sly. Hey! Get those crates in the way! We’ll smuggle you two below decks, and if any landlubber asks—well, no one’s getting on our ship, Great Company or not!”

The crew instantly went running. Marian blinked at Umina.

“How did you do that?”

The Lizardgirl just grinned.

“Know your audience. Remember the crowd? Look.”

She pointed. The first [Sailor] was already back. And as the others tossed down a harness used for horses for Marian, the Centaur noticed what had made Umina pick this ship. The crew, with the exception of Ronny, were all Lizardfolk.

“Umina, right? You’re doing us proud! The Titan’s personal class! You’d better win this one for us!”

The [Sailors] congregated around the two as they helped lift Marian, hiding them as the two disappeared below decks. Marian was following Umina shaking hands and touching tails as she smiled. The Centaur stumbled as she went down the cramped and, to her, very narrow stairs; she was breathing harder even though the below decks were quite spacious.

“We need a hiding place. Can we move your stuff?”

“Sure, sure. Need a hand?”

“Just tell us when the Iron Vanguard moves in! And in the name of Nagas, don’t act suspicious!”

“Uh—”

“Just don’t act unnatural! Get drunk or something!”

The [Sailor] brightened up and headed upstairs. Marian looked at Umina as the Lizardgirl checked the hold.

“We don’t have nearly enough to take on Tulm the Mithril’s soldiers. Your tripvine bag won’t work on the elites, Marian. We need a better plan and fast.”

“I’ve got gold. And some stuff in my bag of holding. Is the world…rocking to you?”

The Centaur replied faintly. Umina glanced up.

“We’re on a ship, Marian.”

“Oh. Centaurs don’t like being at sea. Or boats. Or small spaces, Umina.”

“Bear with it until we can go, Marian.”

“We could go now. There are better hiding spots.”

Marian danced in place nervously, then felt ill. Umina sighed.

“No. We hide here, at least for the first hour.”

“But if someone gets to the Professor before us—don’t you want to win?”

The Lizardgirl paused. She met Marian’s eyes, and there was a fire there that made the Centaur forget her sea—her harborsickness for a moment.

“I do. And we’re going to win, Marian. But we need intelligence on how Tulm is moving. How many soldiers are on each street, whether he’s concentrating his forces or spreading them out—anyone who rushes the plaza right off will get caught. We need to wait for an opening.”

“But if we’re trapped in this wooden box—”

Marian gulped. Another Lizardwoman had come down. She eyed Marian and silently handed her the most important object in the pair’s plan so far. A bucket. Marian immediately clutched it to her chest.

“Damned Centaurs. Get seasick on a rowboat in the middle of a pond. What can we do for you, Umina?”

The Lizardgirl smiled at the older [Captain].

“We could use eyes and ears, [Captain]. No one said we couldn’t ask for help. Can you put some of your crew out to let us know what’s happening?”

“Can do! Don’t worry, my crew’ll love to help out. No one’s getting on our decks. And—”

Both Lizardfolk winced as the boat rocked in a gentle swell and Marian promptly threw up.

“—don’t worry about your friend here. Or my decks. This is the most fun we’ve had in ages! Tulm the Mithril! And the Titan himself! You think we can win?”

“We can.”

Umina met the [Captain]’s eyes and got a grin. She reached out and patted Marian on the back.

“But first we hide. And wait. And we see what happens next. The Professor always says that information wins wars. That, and armies. We’re working on the second part.”



——



“Halt! The harbor is sealed by the Iron Vanguard company!”

The order came when Luan was a few hundred feet from the warships. He cursed, but he slowed and half-rose to shout back with hands cupped over his mouth.

“I’m a City Runner! I have a priority delivery! I can’t stop!”

There was hesitation aboard the warship. Except for war—no, even in war, City Runners were usually accorded immunity. The Dullahan aboard the ship called back.

“No entry! You will have to wait! If the request is urgent, the package can be relayed!”

“I don’t think that’ll happen.”

Luan muttered to himself. He stood up.

“I can’t deliver to anyone but the recipient! You know the Runner’s Guild rules! I can prove I’m a City Runner! I have my seal here!”

So saying, he paddled forwards. The Dullahan on board turned and paced up to what looked like the [Captain] or another officer. He came back and shouted after a second, and Luan had closed maybe fifty feet.

“No entry! By order of Tulm the Mithril, no one is allowed into the harbor! Turn back at once!”

Tulm the Mithril? Luan had no idea who that was, but he sounded like someone important. Still, the City Runner had no choice. He pretended to go forwards at a decent rowing pace, as if he were putting his back into it.

“I have to make my delivery! Sorry, friends!”

“No—”

The voice cut off, and Luan saw the Dullahan gesture exasperatedly towards him. Some Dullahans approached with nets and began slinging them from the first warship to the one at anchor across from them. They were going to form an artificial wall! Luan grinned.

“Too slow! Here we go!”

He swung around the boat, then put his back to the warship. In the mirror, he saw the Dullahans pause, hoping perhaps that he’d given up. Not so; Luan had just gotten in the proper sculling position. He bent forwards, dipped his oars in the water, and pulled. And he took off.

“[Power Strokes]!”

Luan saw the water heave as his agile craft shot left—not towards the gap between the first warship, but between another pair. The Dullahans blinked and stared for a moment—Luan was shooting across the water faster than they could run! He heard a cry from the Dullahans on watch.

“Dead gods! Put the nets down now! [Mages], stop that boat—”

Pull. Swing. Dip. Pull. Swing—Luan heaved, and the force shot his scull out of the water. He felt the boat land and grinned. A net landed in front of him, which was really behind his scull—the Dullahans had misjudged how fast he was going.

“Is that a damned Courier?”

“[Mages]! Get over here now! I said—”

Pull! The oars didn’t send a huge splash of water flying; that was poor form. All of Luan’s strength went into the water and sent his boat flying. He saw someone pelting up the decks. But before the [Mage] could even get to the aft of the warship, he was through the gap. He shot through the harbor as the [Mages] raced to the starboard of their ships. More nets, but he was out of their range. But spells?

“No, no, no—”

Luan turned right. Something—it looked like a huge net made of spider webs—struck the water with a large splash next to him. The second spell was a ball of purple that imploded in the water, creating a whirlpool and trying to drag Luan in. He rowed furiously, dodged a third spell that looked like some kind of magical anchor, and saw the docks coming up fast. No time to slow—

“Gah!”

The impact splintered the front of Luan’s boat and capsized him. Luan frantically grabbed at the pier’s docks as he surfaced and, with bag of holding in hand, clambered over the side. He saw a ship full of Lizardpeople watching him with interest.

“Look at that Human go!”

“Is he a student? Good luck, Human!”

Luan heaved himself onto the docks, swearing and dripping with water. He stared at his broken scull, but it was too late for regrets. He saw the Dullahans on the warships pointing, but for some reason they weren’t chasing him! He decided not to chance it. If worst came to worst, he’d buy a ride back to Talenqual. Fifty gold pieces could buy him the scull of his dreams—or at least, a much better one.

“The Starlight Requiem. The Starlight Requiem—”

The [Rower] panted as he ran up an inclining street. The inn was close to the docks! He just had to go up two streets. He was prepared for anything or to fight through a crowd, but the streets were eerily empty. All he saw was a running Lizardperson—no, wait! Was that a Drake?— disappearing down one street. And then another empty street. And…windows with people staring down…

Luan slowed. He looked around. Every window in the upper floors was full of staring faces. Lizardfolk, Dullahans…they stared down at him. Someone shouted from above.

“Hurry up! Time’s nearly up!”

“Time? What time?”

The face was confused. Luan looked around, and his stomach was in knots. What had Venaz gotten himself into? He spotted a sign and raced towards it.

“The inn! Hello? Is anyone—”

The Runner pushed open the doors and staggered in. He took one look around. The [Innkeeper] looked up. He was a Dullahan, and his body lumbered towards Luan like something out of a horror film while his head shouted from the counter.

“Oh no! You can’t hide in here! I can’t have my inn destroyed!”

“Wait! I’m looking for a Minotaur—”

“I sent him out too! No one’s hiding here! I get enough things broken with the [Sailors] brawling! Out! Out!”

“But where did he—”

The Dullahan chased Luan out; the man backed up fast, and the doors slammed in his face. He looked around and grabbed at his hair.

“That goddamn—where is he?”

Venaz was nowhere in sight. And judging by the commotion, something was going on. Something bad? Luan stared up at the people in the windows.

“Did a Minotaur come this way? I have a delivery for him! I’m a City Runner!”

There was an ooh from above. Some of the watching citizens turned to each other.

“Should we tell him?”

“What if he’s on the Mithril’s side?”

“But a City Runner—anyone remember where he went?”

“…No.”

“Damn.”

Luan ran down the street, searching frantically. But no one was on the ground! It was as if—then he saw a group of [Soldiers] marching towards him. There were eighteen Lizardfolk and three Centaurs. They stopped as they spotted Luan. One of the Lizardfolk frowned.

“Wow. They suck at hiding. Is this really who’ll be commanding us? Hope this one’s a washout.”

The Centaur leading the group frowned. He was armed with what looked like a catch pole. Another Centaur had a long, curved stick much like a hockey stick, ideal for tripping people up. The Lizardfolk had nets, staves. And clubs. Luan gulped.

“I’m a City Runner. On a delivery.”

He held up the bag of holding and fumbled for his seal. The [Soldiers] stared at it. They looked at each other. The Lizardman scratched at his frills.

“Okay, that’s sort of smart. Do you think he’s telling the truth, though? Anyone can get a seal if you paid enough. Is it a student?”

The Centaur looked vexed. He stomped a hoof.

“Take anyone on the street! That’s what the Mithril said, and we’re part of this game. You want to turn down ten gold coins?”

“When you put it like that—get him!”

“Wait! Shit—”

Luan turned to run. The Lizardfolk and Centaurs raced after him. He heard galloping hooves and knew there wasn’t much point in running—Luan stopped with his hands up in front of a closed stables. He turned, and Centaur bearing down on him reigned up.

“Sensible, Human. Look, if you are a City Runner, you’re in bad luck. If you don’t run, we won’t beat on you. How’d you get into the city, anyways? The gates are locked tighter than an Ogre’s ass.”

“How tight is that anyw—”

“I got in through the harbor. Past the warships.”

The Centaur looked surprised, then delighted.

“You got past the Iron Vanguard? Hah! So much for sea superiority. Alright, turn around and we’ll put some ties on you. You can sit in the plaza with the other captives; you might be the first one. The game’s just started. Shame you aren’t a student, though.”

“Game? What game?”

“You didn’t hear? Well—damn, we’ll let them explain. It’s just begun, though, so you’re lucky you’re off the streets. It could get chaotic. Especially with Tulm the Mithril seeking. I heard that when he played against the Titan, he burned half a city down—”

Luan stared at the Centaur as the [Soldier] fumbled with some rope. The other [Soldiers] looked disappointed they couldn’t beat Luan up. They were chatting to Luan as a patrol of Dullahans came around the street. They were marching fast and armed like this group, but the way the Lizardfolk and Centaurs stiffened told Luan they were at odds, for all they were on the same side.

“Halt!”

“We’re on your side, idiots!”

The Lizardfolk shouted back. The Dullahans marched over to them, and the leader pointed at Luan.

“Is this a student? We’ll take him.”

“And steal the gold reward? We have him, thank you, [Captain]. Your [Strategist] may be in charge, but we can do our job.”

“I’m not a student—”

“Did you say the game’s started? I thought it was in two more minutes!”

The Centaur snorted as he pawed the ground, his group facing off with the Dullahans.

“Your time’s off. Lord Astoragon just called a start to the game! Think we’d cheat and—”

He broke off and turned. So did the Dullahans. And Luan. They stared at the stable doors. The muffled voice had come from there. Someone from inside spoke.

“Hah. Told you that timekeeping artifact’s utter trash, Tompha. Alright. I guess we’d better start this off.”

Luan threw up his hands and shouted.

“Start what off—”

The game of hide-and-seek, the Titan’s challenge, the competition in Daquin, started in earnest next to Luan. It started with a whumph of sound as the doors of the stable blew outwards. A group of eighteen students burst out of the stables, riding full-tilt on stolen horses straight for the plaza. The [Soldiers] turned to run after them, and one threw a bottle. Luan turned and dove as he saw the glass break; he felt something strike across his back and try to unravel, but the tripvine missed.

As Luan rolled to his feet, he saw the [Soldiers] groaning and swearing in the middle of a tangle of vines. Another bottle broke, and a pair of Dullahans dropped like stones; the soporific’s vapors knocked out the audience in the apartment above. The students rode past them, shouting as a wall of Dullahans raced towards them. Towards Luan too. The [Rower] took one look at the students, the [Mage] hurling arrows made of light, the Dullahans with nets, and he ran for it. He was going to kill that Minotaur.

If he ever found him.



——



The explosion from the stables was audible even in the plaza. No one had been making a lot of noise before that. From his seat, Niers looked up and smiled.

“And so it begins. High Mage Teura, move that scrying orb closer, will you? And everyone else, stay out of the winner’s circle. I won’t have you interfering with the game.”

He waved at the group of teachers, onlookers, Wistram [Mages], and others clustered around the circle. They shuffled obligingly out of the way as the half-Elf [Mage] floated the scrying orb closer to Niers’ seat. She and Niers were the only two in the winner’s circle. Outside of it was a ring of Dullahans in black armor.

The Midnight Shield. They didn’t so much as budge at Niers’ order. They would have really ruined his view of the game, but happily Niers had the scrying orb. And Wistram’s [Mages] had spread to every corner of the city to watch. That meant Niers could watch the game through the scrying orb with everyone else and see the action already in progress.

A group of eighteen students were racing down a street, barely two blocks away from the plaza. The view was from a rooftop, and Niers could actually see the [Mage] with this vantage point slowly tracking the action from above. He enjoyed this perspective immensely, although it did mean he sometimes saw himself in the scrying orb as the viewpoint shifted to Teura’s vision.

“Lord Astoragon, do you have any comments? It’s surprising to see your students moving so quickly, isn’t it?”

Teura spoke on Niers’ right hand. He shrugged and reached for a bit of candied nuts, then eyed himself in the scrying orb. He sighed, sat up, and spoke with a smile on his face.

“Not at all. They’re probably hoping to catch Tulm off guard. Boldness is a strategy in itself. And they’re on horseback. We should be seeing them—”

A clatter of hooves. The viewpoint switched back to the students. They were racing up a street. Niers watched them throwing alchemist weapons with abandon; one of them was casting spells. He chortled with delight.

“And here’s Tefret himself! A [Mage Captain], one of our graduates, in fact. He’s pushing in hard. And I think the Iron Vanguard—excuse me, Tulm’s force—has underestimated my students. Money can bowl over even a regiment of battle-hardened Dullahans!”

It was true. The seeking bands of Dullahans had come armed to catch, not to block a dozen exploding flasks that showered them with oily slicks, sleeping gas, vines, and in one case, some kind of liquid that was apparently very painful to get into the eyes. The Dullahans backed up, calling for shields—which of course they hadn’t brought. Niers glanced up with a smile and saw the viewpoint flick to Tulm the Mithril, standing calmly next to a map of the city. The Dullahan glanced up, and Niers saw his eyes in the scrying orb for a second. He spoke a single order.

“Southern entrance. Have the unit hold ground; the riders won’t reach them. Xol. Cut them off.”

In the scrying orb, the [Strategists] were racing towards a row of Dullahans. They’d outpaced everyone else and had blasted their way clear. The half-Elf, Tefret, was throwing [Light Arrow] spells from the tip of his wand, a veritable storm of magical bullets. But they weren’t deadly; at worst, they had the force of a hammer to the jaw, and the Dullahans guarding the plaza did have shields. They held their ground, holding behind the shields, refusing to buckle in front of the impact. The [Riders] refused to slow as well. They were aiming for the Dullahan wall, and Niers looked up and saw them at the entrance to the plaza.

“Confusing. Reality meets scrying orb.”

He shook his head and jumped up. Teura yelped as the Fraerling climbed up her arm and onto her head. Niers saw his students riding at him behind the wall of Dullahans just in time. They passed by a building, and the wall exploded outwards. A fist grabbed a student off her horse and slammed her gently into the ground. Gently by comparison; the Human girl might have broken a few ribs. But the Dullahan [Juggernaut] who charged out of the side of the building could have squashed her and her horse like a bug.

“Dead gods! [Juggernaut]!”

The students screamed. Three horses reared—the gigantic Dullahan swept a hand and knocked all three students off with blows that were almost too fast to see. He was quick! And strong—he grabbed another horse as it ran past him and plucked the student off.

“Back, back!”

“We’re nearly there!”

The remaining students panicked. One threw a tripvine bag at the colossus wearing crimson armor with silver inlays. The [Juggernaut] caught the bag; it exploded in one hand. He lashed out, and the student went flying. The Dullahan rose, high, higher, until he loomed above the horses below. Fourteen feet high; he had to have been crouching to have hidden. He charged forwards, and the students scattered.

Niers heard a gulp from below. He looked down and saw the scrying orb had changed. A Drake sat in place, face pale.

“T-that would be—Xol of Ingrilt. Wouldn’t you say, uh, Sir Relz?”

A second Drake appeared in the picture. He was wearing a monocle and tapping his claws together rapidly.

“Indeed, Noass. Xol of Ingrilt, one of the largest and most famous War Walkers in the Iron Vanguard company. Often seen in the company of Tulm the Mithril’s personal vanguard, so it’s not surprising to see him here in one sense. In the other—deploying a War Walker in an urban environment is…and against students who might not even be Level 20? Some of them—I wonder if the Titan of Baleros would care to comment. We, er, understand he is watching, no doubt, and perhaps this development had caused him to reconsider his claim to, ah—”

The image broke off. Niers saw another [Mage], the Centaur, edging around to stare at Niers standing on Teura’s head. He looked over and saw Tulm staring at him. Niers smiled and adjusted his voice so it boomed across the plaza to Tulm.

“Ah, Tulm. You only brought one?”

He was rewarded by just the slightest of changes in expression. Then Niers turned and watched the rest. He completely ignored the two Drakes trying to get his attention as the scrying orb flicked back to the action.



——



“Move! Scatter!”

Tefret bellowed at the other students. Eleven raced away; Xol and the pursuing Dullahans had already knocked out seven. The Dullahans on the southern entrance to the plaza had formed a triple line; there was no chance of getting past them. And Xol was pursuing the others. The giant was outrunning horses, at least in the narrow streets. Xol whirled as Tefret charged him on horseback.

“Xol!”

The [Mage Captain] leapt from his horse and slapped it to make it race away. He aimed his wand and pointed.

“[Storm Arrows of Light]!”

A hundred missiles shot from the tip of his wand, blasting outwards in a spiral. They hammered Xol as the Dullahan turned towards him. The [Juggernaut] didn’t bother to shield his face. He just charged into the hail of magical arrows.

“Trees rot it all—[Aerial Burst]!”

The half-Elf pointed at the ground. The shockwave blasted him off his feet and into the air. He landed on a rooftop, sprinted across the top, and pointed down.

“[Sticky Webs]! [Water Geyser]!”

The webs shot down, hitting the giant Dullahan. A huge column of water blasted out after the webs, enough to knock several Dullahans down. Tefret leapt.

“[Featherfall]! [Hammer Kick]!”

He hit the ground lightly from the two story drop and kicked a charging Dullahan. The metal armor bent around the midsection as the Dullahan dropped. Tefret whirled. He had to run! Time for another plan. Without using deadly spells, there was no chance of felling Xol. On the plus side, the [Juggernaut] couldn’t pursue him hard. If he ran—

The half-Elf sprinted for an alley. He stopped as his [Dangersense] screamed at him and halted. The wall exploded outwards, and Xol appeared. His armor was wet and a few strands of webbing clung to the enchanted metal. Tefret looked up at him with a weak smile.

“Then again, I didn’t have a chance anyways, did I?”

Xol bent. The giant Dullahan tensed. Tefret raised his wand.

“[Valmira’s—]”

A hand grabbed him. The [Mage Captain] fired the spell into the palm for all the good it did. He went up and then slammed into the ground. His body didn’t break. The paved stone did. Tefret grinned up dizzily at Xol as the Dullahan stared down at him. The half-Elf croaked.

“I am a huge admirer of yours. May I buy you a drink?”

Xol smiled.

“Later.”



——



“Dead gods. Dead gods.”

The first encounter with the Iron Vanguard spread like wildfire across the city. Half the students creeping out of their hiding spots immediately retreated. The fire that Niers had lit under their bellies vanished.

“A [Juggernaut]? How are we supposed to beat that?”

A Drake grabbed her Gnoll friend and whisper-screamed in the apartment they’d hidden themselves in. The Dullahan watching out the window gave them a sympathetic look. The Gnoll [Tactician] was breathing heavily.

“I—I do not know. Dullahans should be slow, no? Maybe—”

“Slow? You saw that thing! It caught a horse! And it got Tefret like that!”

The Drake snapped her claws. The Gnoll nodded a few times. She licked her lips.

“Piccy, we may be outmatched. We are only in our second year. Maybe we should give up. The other students may be able to take on the Iron Vanguard. But we—”

“Give up? But we won’t get another shot for years! I knew we should have prepared more. I knew it. Oh, Ancestors, why didn’t we think? We can’t go outside. We go, and we’ll get caught like that—”

Piccy snapped her fingers. She clutched at her neck spines and glanced at the window. Then she heard a pop.

A Dullahan [Mage] appeared in their room. She wore no robes; her armor shone like glass, a brilliant yellow stone mixed with dark black metal. She pointed at the Drake and Gnoll.

“Located.”

“Jump for it!”

The Gnoll went for the window. The Dullahan pointed as the apartment’s room owner fled.

“[Water Wall].”

A torrent of water shot upwards, engulfing both [Tacticians] in a moment. The Drake and Gnoll floated helplessly, choking for a few seconds, before the Dullahan [Mage] levitated them out and into the air. The [Mage] paused to turn back to the other Dullahan, who was staring in horror at the captured students.

“My apologies for the disruption, Miss. Please submit any water damages to the Iron Vanguard pending the conclusion of this exercise.”

Then she leapt and floated down the street. And the Wistram [Mage] had seen it all.

“How did they find them?”

Noass pounded the seat of his armrest, staring at the replay of the two [Tacticians] being caught. He turned to Sir Relz. The Drake was thinking.

“No doubt the two were giving off some kind of signal. But what? I have to think it was a [Scrying] spell employed by the Iron Vanguard’s mages. They must be looking for magical hotspots.”

“Can you explain, Sir Relz?”

“Naturally. Any artifacts that give off magic, any powerful spellcaster would show up under certain scrying spells. Those would obviously locate some of Daquin’s citizens, but more than a few students would easily be caught this way unless they have counter spells! This is—well, it’s effective, but is it sporting?”

“It certainly wasn’t for those two poor girls. Two of Izril’s own, gone like that! This really is a one-sided match so far. And what’s this?”

The image blurred. Daquin’s watch tower, at least eighty feet in the air, had a guest. That would be a Wistram [Mage], who backed up as she saw someone else climbing up. A furry, somewhat shaggy—the two Drakes stared.

“That’s no Gnoll. I know Gnolls, and that is not a Gnoll. Sir Relz?”

“No…that has to be—”

The Fox Beastkin growled up at the [Mage] staring down at him.

“Move.”

She leapt sideways into the air, making an affronted sound as he shoved her aside. The leather-clad adventurer took no notice. He strung a longbow as he stood on the small tower, staring around. Then he took aim.

“Got one.”

He pulled an arrow out with a shaped head, aimed it, and loosed in less than a second. The arrow flew down, emitting a shrieking sound as the carved head caught the air. And when it landed, it detonated with a cloud of smoke. The running Centaur yelped as Dullahans converged on her location. The [Sniper] looked around and twisted.

“Got two. Twenty gold pieces.”

He loosed again, shooting an arrow through a window and pegging a Dullahan peeking out in the chest. She fell back as smoke billowed from the window. Noass and Sir Relz stared. The Drake with the spectacle spoke slowly.

“That would be a Gold-rank adventurer. Samile the Watcher, part of the Whisperstep band. It appears Tulm the Mithril is expanding his vision with him on the tower. Noass, would you have a chance of hiding against a Gold-ranked [Sniper]?”

“Not a chance, Sir Relz. And I would dare any Silver-ranked team to do better than these poor students.”

Both Drakes were nodding. Sir Relz looked back in the scrying orb, and fixed it with a stern gaze.

“Lord Astoragon, I’ll ask again since you appear not to be hearing me. Is this unfair?”



——



“Oh, shut up.”

Feshi growled at the image in the scrying orb. She was crammed into a root cellar. A very small, unfinished root cellar. But it was practically invisible even up close, the smell of the cellar would foil any nose, and the dirt provided some protection from scrying spells. As did the talisman tied to Feshi’s necklace of fangs. It was a gift from her tribe’s [Shaman], and she defied the Iron Vanguard to find her with their spells. She could even watch the scrying orb.

All in all, it was a wonderful hiding spot. The Gnoll had located it in a preparatory visit to Daquin. Feshi’s only complaint was that she hadn’t been the only one to find it. She shifted, and nearly collided with the person sitting next to her. Wil stared into his scrying orb and winced; another student was caught.

A Dullahan [Strategist] both he and Feshi knew had been beating a group of Dullahans back with a quarterstaff. He’d fought quite well—right up until Xol had charged into the alley and rammed him into a wall. The Gnoll sucked in her breath.

“This is not good, no? I expected a formidable opponent. Perhaps even Fleethoof herself as Umina predicted. But this is ruthless. As befits Tulm. Is there no hope?”

She looked unhappily at the Human crammed in next to her. She rather liked Wil, for all he was vaguely depressed most of the time and unconfident. Better that than arrogant like Venaz, though. But Feshi didn’t see a happy ending for either of them. She had a few tricks, but nothing that would work if everything was as one-sided as this.

To her surprise, Wil glanced up at Feshi. And his eyes were alight with…emotion. It burned so bright that the Gnoll wondered if she’d gotten into the root cellar with the same Human. Wil even smelled different. The [Lord] and [Strategist] shook his head.

“We’re not done yet, Feshi. I’m not done. None of our class has been caught.”

The Gnoll met his eyes.

“No. This is true. Forgive my panic. But you have a plan. Or is courage enough?”

Wil was about to respond, but Feshi perked up one ear. She held up a paw, and he went silent. The two [Strategists] held their breaths. They heard a muffled bark. Wil whispered.

“Hunting dogs. We should be safe here. They can’t smell us. These roots stink.”

“How many tricks does this Mithril one have?”

Feshi growled. She smeared more half-rotten produce on her and Wil for good measure and heard him gag. The Gnoll shook her head.

“I can handle them even if they get near. But this is serious. This Tulm, he wants to beat the Professor rather badly, no?”

“He does. And he’s pulling out everything he has. Wouldn’t you?”

The Gnoll grinned.

“Only if it didn’t get me insulted. These two Drakes, I know them. They commented on Liscor’s siege and those moth attacks. One wonders if Wistram approached them to speak about this. It seems like an interesting job, yes? If only—”

“—they weren’t so stupid?”

Feshi blinked. Wil was staring down at the scrying orb. He glanced up.

“Sorry. They are playing the, uh, fools. You know, the oblivious bit? I saw a comedy routine by [Jesters] back home like this.”

“You think they’re foolish?”

The Gnoll squatted to peer into the scrying orb. In the lull between more students being caught, the two Drakes were using a map of Daquin and talking about the various sweeps going through the city. There were at least three thousand soldiers on the ground, but the city was home to tens of thousands. Without magic or other devices, Tulm’s forces would be searching for weeks to find all of the students.

Then again, he didn’t need to find them all. There was only one way to win. And while Feshi supposed the Dullahan [Strategist] might be humiliated a bit by a less-than-complete victory, it was hollow for the hiders. Wil grimaced at the orb. He looked up apologetically.

“I thought that was what you were going to say. Don’t you agree?”

“Hrr. I don’t believe they’re underrepresenting our competition.”

“But we haven’t begun to fight yet.”

Feshi caught the same look in his eyes that had driven her people from northern Izril. That burning, indefatigable emotion.

Determination.

And as he spoke, the viewpoint shifted. Wil and Feshi watched as a group of Dullahans swept down a street, moving into houses—after knocking first, of course—checking each floor, keeping alert for [Mages] or the screaming arrows from the watch tower. They looked up and down the street. And then they saw them.

A group walking towards them, down the street. The Dullahans relaxed. Another soldier group. Until they saw the Dwarf walking among them. That gave them pause. Then they saw the lack of uniforms and grabbed their blunt weapons.

“Surrendering?”

The Dullahan [Sergeant] called out, smiling. Some of her [Soldiers] laughed. The group of students looked puzzled. There were six of them. A Gnoll, the Dwarf, Merrik, a pair of Centaurs, a Garuda, and a Drake. Feshi didn’t recognize any of them outside of this morning. She stared.

“Surrender?”

Merrik, the Dwarf, spoke. He had a greatclub over one shoulder. He looked at the others, and they grinned. He shrugged at the Dullahan squad.

“If you like. Put your weapons down. Tie yourselves up while you’re at it.”

The Dullahans lost their relaxed postures. They formed up, coming down the street while the Dullahan relayed a [Message]. There were twenty-four of the Dullahans. Six students. The Dwarf counted.

“That’s…hold on. One and one-fifth for you lot, eighteen for me. Got it?”

“Your math is terrible.”

“Bite me, Kelsa.”

The Dullahans looked at their [Sergeant]. She gave a curt order.

“Take them!”

They charged across the ground. The Dwarf roared. He jumped forwards. The students charged. The Dullahans weren’t expecting that. Merrik brought his club up. The [Sergeant] was the only one who had a shield in one hand and a truncheon in the other, which made her sensible. And dangerous. The Dullahan roared.

“[Ram’s Charge]! [Power Strike]!”

She shot past her men. Merrik slowed and brought up his club.

“[Hammer Blow].”

The two met with an impact that shook the street. Dullahans stopped and took cover as shrapnel from the paving stones flew in every direction. They looked up and saw a shape in the dust. Merrik stood over the Dullahan. The [Sergeant]’s armor was bowed in. The Dwarf bent and felt at her head anxiously. He looked up and nodded.

“Phew. Didn’t kill her. Didn’t know it was her, either.”

The Dullahans stared. They looked at Merrik as he sauntered forwards. One croaked.

“How—”

“Oh. That. [Body of Stone], lad. And it’s [Giant’s Hammer], not [Hammer Blow]. I just like shouting fake Skills for fun.”

Merrik brushed at his tunic. The fabric flapped away, revealing something underneath. Steel. The Dwarf winked.

“You’re not the only ones with armor. Ready?”

Then he charged. The Dullahans braced. The pair of Centaurs leapt over Merrik and the [Sergeant]. Kelsa had a staff in one hand. She whirled it, struck a Dullahan over the top of his helmet and then under the chin. She danced sideways, kicked—a Dullahan caught the hoof and spun.

The second Centaur caught a catchpole on one leg and then a net across the chest. He kept running. The Dullahans shouted as the catchpole was torn loose from a hand. The three Dullahans holding the net skidded across the ground as the Centaur ran on. Then he circled and trampled the fallen [Soldiers]. Carefully.

“Forwards! For Oteslia and the skies!”

The Drake shouted. She flew forwards, and the wooden club she carried snapped twice, striking hard enough to dent metal. Dullahans surged forwards. More were coming down the street! The Drake spun, hacking at those surrounding her. Then she opened her mouth.

“Oldbl—”

The warning came too late. The Dullahans surrounding her shouted as a jet black fog burst from the Drake’s mouth. They stumbled out of the cloud, choking, and a few seconds later, the Drake strode forwards. She dispersed the fog herself, dragging out the Dullahans who’d inhaled the black smog and fainted. She whirled as a Dullahan clubbed her across the back of the head. He drew back his mace and a blunt tip of a wooden sword struck him between the eyes.

The head of the Dullahan bounced to the ground. The Gnoll tsked as she walked past the Dullahan [Soldier] as his body crumpled, unconscious. Dozens of Dullahans were swarming towards her. She left the rest of her group to fight the patrol.

The second group of Dullahans slowed slightly as she walked towards them. The Gnoll carried a rapier, or rather, a wooden imitation. Sturdy at the tip but still flexible, a bludgeoning weapon in the shape of the dueling sword. But however incongruous it was, it fit. The Gnoll’s hand glinted as she lifted the rapier. Her paws glided across the street, her stance never wavering.

A silver bell chimed on her paw. The Dullahans set themselves. Their [Lieutenant] drew a wooden sword. He charged the Gnoll, shouting for his men to surround her. The [Fencer] stepped in, her eyes gleaming.

“Fight’s going one way! Keep it up! And leave some for me!”

Merrik huffed as he ran to catch up after the scattering Dullahans. They were falling back, regrouping. He ran after one, raising his club over his head and shouting a war cry. A fist punched through the wall just over his head.

The Dwarf froze. He looked up as Xol tore a hole in the side of the wall. The [Juggernaut] looked down. He raised a fist, and Merrik brought up his club, swearing. Xol swung, then leaned back mid-strike. He dodged the kick at his head. Xol lashed out again, with a jab that cut the air. He still missed her.

The Garuda back flipped through the air. She caught herself in the air and dove.

“Axe kick. Palm strike. Punch. Punch. Cross kick.”

She calmly pounded Xol across the chest, transitioning from the kick to punches and another kick. The [Juggernaut] struck again, but he missed. His armor rang with more blows, and the Garuda flew back. She landed and flipped sideways—a fist struck the stone.

“Punch.”

She punched the arm before it withdrew. Merrik roared.

“Grandfathers damn it, Peki! Stop shouting your moves!”

“Move back. I can’t hold him long.”

The Garuda balanced on one leg, holding up the other claw-foot, her wings poised to take off, dodge or strike. A [Martial Artist]’s stance. One who fought on both air and ground. Xol stared at her. Then he charged.

Punch, left, right, up—the Dullahan slammed with his shoulder, hoping to hit her. But he missed. The Garuda spun past him and kicked the side of his head. Then she flew up and dove.

“[Aerial Dance: Waterfall Strikes].”

The Garuda vanished. A blur replaced her, striking its way down Xol’s armor. He raised his arms, guarding, staggering as the blows took him off-balance. Peki reappeared on the ground, panting. Her friends were retreating, fighting off the other Dullahans.

“You’re not very good without your weapons. You should have brought your shield at least.”

Xol righted himself slowly. He adjusted his head on his shoulders.

“I’ll reclaim it. Tell me. Who taught you how to fight like this?”

The Garuda smiled.

“Pomle’s Strongest.”

She flew at him. The Garuda struck Xol three more times on the chest and disengaged. Xol retreated, and Peki flew back towards her friends, who were calling for her. The Dullahans stared at their War Walker falling back. The Dullahan [Commander] looked up.

“Call in reinforcements.”

She slowly drew a potion and drank it. Her form blurred. The Dullahans next to her stared at their commander. A [Mage] uttered a spell, and a Dullahan in front of him raised a glowing weapon. A Centaur from the Iron Vanguard company trotted forwards and drank a potion. Her skin and fur turned dark, glossy, like metal.

“Ah, hell. They’re buffing themselves. Time for a tactical retreat?”

Merrik eyed the advancing Dullahans, who were approaching in formation. He looked over his shoulder then ducked.

“Bastard!”

An arrow hit the ground where the Dwarf’s head had been. It burst, and the students leapt back. There was a flash—Merrik emerged looking dizzy.

“Light spell. Faugh! Someone do something about that idiot! I can’t see! Cover me!”

His friends dragged him back. The Dullahans charged, sensing the weakness. Kelsa raised a hand.

“Alright. Now.”

The doors of the apartments opened up and down the street, and people poured out. Dullahans dressed in nondescript armor, holding polished clubs. They laid into the Iron Vanguard with considerably more expertise with the weapons. From an alley behind the Dullahans, a group emerged. Adventurers. The [Mage] in front pointed.

“Floor is hot! [Salamander’s Embers]!”

Fragments of a flaming, magical substance coated the ground in front of her. The other adventurers set up. [Archers] and [Mages] began to fire arrows, which exploded into sticky substances or hit with a nonlethal punch as the [Mages] cast similar spells. The [Warriors] strode forwards, wearing magical footgear and armor. They began beating down the Dullahans in the back row.

Merrik roared. More Dullahans were emerging from every side now; Tulm the Mithril had seen what was going on and was sending more reinforcements. But more students were arriving by the second, some leading groups.

[Thugs]. Adventurers. [Mercenaries]. Fighters for hire. Merrik pointed a club at the struggling Dullahans ahead of him.

“We need to clear this lot up and retreat! Everyone on me! I’m using my big one! [Battalion of Glory]! Charge!”

His club began to shine. The Dwarf charged, and his friends and the fighters on the street began to glow with that same light. They rushed the Iron Vanguard, and their roar seemed amplified by a hundred voices. They crashed into the Dullahans as the [Soldiers] fought to get back.

“Commander charge! Retreat!”

Too late. The adventurers and students took down the Dullahans from both sides. By the time Xol was marching back at the head of a massive force, the forty or so Dullahans on the street were unconscious, stripped of their weapons and items. And the students had retreated. They were instantly pursued, but the [Mages] found the adventurers were able to push them back. Three Dullahans went down, immobilized in short magical duels.

And the Gold-rank adventurer on the watch tower found a Garuda shooting up at him. He shot arrow after arrow at her, and his aim knocked the [Martial Artist] out of the sky. A better matchup. Until Samile the Watcher saw the arrow flying up. He dodged sideways; the arrow exploded, and the burst of air blew him screaming off the watch tower and towards the ground.



——



“The officer classes.”

Feshi and Wil stared at the other students in the orb. The Gnoll breathed the words out slowly. She looked at Wil.

“No wonder we did not recognize them. They aren’t new students. They’re the Professor’s officers, yes? Some of them are aspiring [Generals].”

Wil smiled. He stared at the retreating group, who had fled after Merrik’s Skill ran out.

“They’re all officers. They could have used [Strategist] support; that Dwarf used up his Skill in a battle they’d already won. Some of the others may join them.”

“Wait—look. Jekilt’s already doing that.”

The Gnoll pointed. In the rapidly changing orb, the two saw their classmate. Jekilt was leading a band of nearly fifty fighters through the city, fighting to link up with the others. Wil nodded.

“He must have called on a part of a company. Maybe his friends he keeps talking about.”

The Centaur was fighting with the Iron Vanguard, but like the others, he was moving fast. There were more students popping up around the city, but even combined, they had only a fraction of the Iron Vanguard’s force plus the Forgotten Wing [Soldiers]. But by the same token, the Iron Vanguard couldn’t use all of their soldiers without leaving the plaza exposed. Wil and Feshi looked at each other. The Gnoll bared her teeth.

“So you were right. What now? Do we go above?”

“Not yet.”

Wil’s eyes were fixed on the scrying orb. He glanced up through the slits in the root cellar’s trapdoor. And then he looked at Feshi.

“Listen to those Drakes. They’re fools twice now. They’re acting as if this changes anything.”

Feshi smiled crookedly.

“I agree. This is our teeth we’ve bared. But that Tulm, he has not used a single Skill. And I think—we had better keep hidden until we see what he can do.”

Wil nodded. Then his eyes flicked to the scrying orb.

“It looks like the Professor will give us a chance to see just what we’re up against.”



——



“Foul!”

Niers shouted cheerfully. Samile the Watcher stopped shrieking as half a dozen [Mages] caught him mid-fall and gently lowered him to the ground. He sat there, breathing hard, looking quite flushed. The Titan stood on his dais and shouted into the scrying orb.

“That was fairly lethal! But in fairness’ sake, I’ll say that there were few ways to take that adventurer out that weren’t lethal! Either give him a Ring of Featherfalling or no one goes up there!”

He pointed at Samile. The adventurer nodded vigorously. Then the Titan sat back down and continued watching. From atop Teura’s head, now. The half-Elf coughed pointedly but politely.

“Lord Astoragon. Do you have any comments? I understand our [Commentators] and our audience would like you to speak some words. We have four hundred and twelve [Message] spells directed at you—”

She winced as Niers jumped off her head with a sigh. The Titan adjusted his hat, kicked over his folding chair and footrest and the bowl of nuts. The audience watched as he cleared his dais.

“Very well. If Wistram insists, I suppose you could twist my arm into it. Now, as for that last encounter. I’m pleased to see my officer classes are paying off. The Dwarf is Merrik, a fine [War Leader] rather than a formal military class. I understand he fought several brisk battles in the mountains against Trolls before coming here. Rather hasty with his Skill, but as you can see, he is indomitable against a lower-level class of officer.”

Niers gestured towards the scrying orb as he paced back and forth. The [Mages] desperately tried to recall the image of Merrik. The scrying orb flicked to Sir Relz and Noass. The Drake cleared his throat.

“Ah, so would you say this Dwarf is a contender for—”

The Titan spoke right over the Drake, loudly drowning him out. He gestured towards himself, and the feed was replaced by him once again.

“A fine stalwart lineholder capable of reversing the odds in any army. As for Kelsa and Romin, they’re clearly adept at taking the fight to the enemy in that quintessential Centaur charge, although I’ll note that both were handicapped without their weapons. Romin uses a lance, you see—quite impossible to use nonlethally when he charges.”

He chuckled. Teura opened her mouth, but Niers pointed, and it snapped shut. The [Mage] glared, affronted, as he went on.

“And Kelsa usually had blades on her staff. Both ends; quite deadly too. I forget what she called it. As for Peki, her style speaks for itself. As far as aerial commanders go, I consider her my best. It reminds me of the time she executed a rather splendid raid by air during a training exercise. With twenty Garuda, she managed to defeat a force of nearly a hundred, ironically by using nets—”

Perorn watched Niers strut about, recounting his story as both the Drakes and Teura tried to cut him off. But it was too late. Now the Titan was calling out his students by name as they appeared on the scrying orb.

“Wonderful deflection by Jekilt there. But he is a [Captain], and he can easily divert a charge. You see, it’s impossible to take him with a similar number of unled soldiers. Hah, well, even a [Captain] of the same level might struggle to do it. See how he’s leading his troop down that alley? He hasn’t spotted the Dullahans, but his [Dangersense] plus his intuition Skill, [Battlefield Awareness], is letting him outmaneuver the enemy. He may have other Skills, but I’m afraid that’s his business. Nevertheless…”

He knew each student. Their quirks, their abilities, and their strengths. And the Fraerling was cheerfully shouting into the scrying orb, broadcasting his praise across the world. You couldn’t pay for a better endorsement.

“Pay for publicity. There’s a new thought. I had to kill enemy [Generals] and monsters to get my name out there.”

The Centauress murmured ruefully. She watched Niers, her earlier vexation at him completely forgotten. Because he was playing another game, below his cheerful support of his students. What was it he always said?

Tell a story, Perorn. History is a story. And stories win hearts, more than any speech.

It was all about stories. And here was one now. The world had seen him appear and nearly crush Niers’ students. Tulm the Mithril, one of the most powerful Dullahans in the world. You would bet he would win if you just looked at the odds. But would you? If you weren’t part of the Iron Vanguard, if you weren’t a Dullahan—no, even if you were, who wanted to root for him?

Look at Cameral, his hiding place discovered, throwing Flashfire Dust into the eyes of a [Mage]. Look at a Dullahan girl, wrestling with a [Soldier] twice her size, throwing him, getting away. Children versus adults. A new generation versus an old one.

Tulm the Mithril. Call him Tulm the Villain. Because he wasn’t the one who should win. Every species was represented here, or nearly. Dwarves, half-Elves, Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda—so many species. No matter who you were, you had someone to cheer for. And across the world, Perorn thought they were.

“Show us victory. Show us you can beat the Mithril.”

She looked at the scrying orb. Then Perorn’s head turned. She saw Tulm standing at his impromptu war room, snapping orders. He appeared unruffled. But that was only a façade. He was irritated. The Wistram [Mages] crowding around him, asking questions, didn’t help. He was not used to this. And worse, someone was making comments every few seconds.

“Agh! And that group of Dullahans going down the alley is jumped by Xelic and Sillk. Ah, Sillk, one of our [Rogues]. A splendid takedown of the Dullahan leader. Foliana would have been proud. Are you watching, Foliana? Ah—I would like to mention that Sillk is one of our officers in training. We do not and have never operated an [Assassin] training school, contrary to popular opinion.”

“Would you swear that on a truth spell, Lord Astoragon?”

The Fraerling paused.

“I hardly see the need to. Anyways, as I was saying, wonderful ambush. A shame Tulm, my prized student, missed it. Really a pity, but no one’s perfect. And he’s not serious yet. Ah, and there goes another patrol. Tragic, tragic…he might consider bringing them in now that my students are going on the offensive, but I trust his strategy.”

He turned and gave the watching audience an unconvincing smile. Perorn laughed. It was the twinkle in his eyes. She saw Tulm stiffen at his table; he had a scrying orb to listen to as well. Or rather, a scrying mirror. Orbs were tricky and broke and rolled about. Perorn didn’t know why people loved the damn things.

Still, the Titan’s voice was just that. A voice. Niers Astoragon had given his word not to interfere, let alone use a Skill. You could tune him out. It was just psychological warfare. If you ignored it, it didn’t have an effect on you.

And if you believed that, you didn’t know anything about the Titan. Perorn watched. She waited. And if she could have heard Wil in his root cellar hiding spot, she would have agreed. Anyone who thought Tulm was rattled, that he was losing or unprepared, was a fool. The Dullahan looked up as Perorn stared at him. And the audience around Niers, laughing at a joke the Fraerling had told of one of Tulm’s past mistakes as a student, went quiet.

A cold wind blew. No—it was a wind that had no basis in air. It blew only through flesh. It touched only bone. Freezing. And he stood straighter.

Like a statue that consumed light and gave only a silver glow. With eyes that shone in the day. And the sea of calm that had drowned even the Titan of Baleros. The ice that had crippled Fleethoof.

Tulm the Mithril turned. He bowed towards Niers once and placed his head on his shoulders.

“You were right, Professor. I suppose I must do my best.”

Tulm turned precisely, then stared across the field a moment before barking orders.

“Call them back. Xol takes the north, I will lead the south.”

The Dullahan standing next to him blew a horn. The Midnight Shields stood taller as Tulm walked past them. He looked around, and the Dullahans standing in the plaza looked at him.

“The Midnight Shields will hold this ground. Four hundred of the Iron Vanguard hold these streets. The Forgotten Wing’s [Soldiers] form hunter packs of fifty. Form up in companies of two hundred and disperse the rest as independent patrols. Wait on my mark for targets.”

Horns blew. The [Mages] raised their hands to their temples. Dullahans fell into ranks, their painted armor gleaming in the light. Tulm walked down their ranks. He stopped in front of his chief [Mage].

“Activate the Screamer Dust.”

“The—”

Perorn inhaled. She saw the [Mage] move his fingers. He whispered a word. A single incantation. An activation phrase.

And the world began to shriek.



——



“What’s happening!?”

Umina and Marian heard the air begin to vibrate. Then the vibrations turned into a hum. A shriek of noise that split the air, louder and higher-pitched than any cry. In their root cellar, Wil and Feshi were deafened by the noise. The Gnoll’s ears were bleeding as she tore herself out of the cellar.

Hiding in the water by the harbor docks and the remains of his boat, Luan saw the Centaur and Lizardgirl staggering out of their hold. The [Sailors] backed up, shouting over the noise. But it was intense! The two [Strategists] shouted at each other, and then the Lizardgirl pointed to the water. She dove, and the sound faded. Marian did the same, and Luan saw the two treading water. The ringing in his ears faded and he heard the Centauress, still shouting, paddle towards the shore.

“What in the name of horse shoes was that?”

“Screamer Dust! We must have gotten hit by it! But I have no idea when—”

The Lizardgirl was shouting too, rubbing at hear earholes. Then her eyes widened.

“The plaza! Remember those [Mages] throwing something? Feshi was sneezing—oh, Nagas! We all got hit! Listen!”

She grabbed her friend. Luan could hear it too. The dust or whatever had been causing that noise had washed off the two in the water, but across the city the sound was echoing. Hundreds of students were flushed out of hiding. And the waiting soldiers pounced on them before they could wash their dust off.

“That dirty, cheating—”

The Centauress swore with words Luan had never heard before. They sounded like horse expressions. ‘Salt-licking coward?’ He almost laughed, but the look on her face was bleak. The Lizardgirl nodded. Then her eyes widened.

“Hold on. One’s getting nearer! It’s—”

Luan saw a huge, bellowing figure sprinting down the street. Right at him. The [Rower] dove just in time. Venaz plunged into the water, flailed about, and then swam to the docks. He heaved himself out of the water, cursing.

“Underhanded. When I get my hands on that spineless—”

He broke off as he saw the two looking at him.

“Marian! Umina! So that’s where you two have been. I should have known. You got doused as well?”

“We were hiding here! Where have you been?”

The Minotaur shook his head. He wiped water out of his eyes, casting a glance up the street.

“Never mind that. We need to move. Now. More students will be trying to get here. And the damned [Soldiers] are sure to have heard us. I passed a patrol of Forgotten Wing soldiers on the way here.”

“You idiot, Venaz—”

“If I had my plan in place—”

“You!”

All three turned as Luan heaved himself out of the water. The [Rower] glared at Venaz. He stomped towards him. The Minotaur brightened.

“Ah! Perfect!”

“Where were you? And what is going on? I did not get paid for—”

The Minotaur was holding his hands out, completely unapologetic and reaching for his bag of holding. Marian was staring at Luan. Umina was looking at neither. She glanced up the street.

“Oh no. Here they come!”

She pointed. Luan saw a patrol of Dullahans, Centaurs, Lizardfolk, and Selphids charging down the street. Three Humans too. Venaz swore. Marian pointed.

“This way! Plan B, Umina! Follow me!”

She grabbed the Lizardfolk girl and tossed her onto her back. The Centaur galloped down the docks as the [Soldiers] pointed and gave chase. Venaz turned to Luan.

“My bag!”

“My money!”

“No time.”

The Minotaur glanced around. Luan backed up, but Venaz didn’t bother with the bag. He grabbed Luan and, like Marian, tossed all six feet plus of the [Rower] over his shoulder and took off. Luan swore and tried to break free, but Venaz was thundering along. He followed Marian as the Centaur wove and changed streets. The howling was still in the air. And then the Centaur halted.

“What is that?”

A wall of dark grey fog was coming towards them. Venaz stared as Marian backed up. Umina pointed.

“That way!”

“Put me—”

Luan bounced about and nearly bit his tongue. Then he heard a door slam. A flurry of voices, Venaz's outraged tone, and then a horrible smell. Luan twisted as he saw a huge opening into darkness. He realized what it was as Marian half slid down and shouted.

“Whoa, whoa, wait—”

Too late. He was tossed down the outhouse’s receptacle into the communal septic tank. Luan wished he could have landed on his feet. He did not. Worse, the ‘floor’ was liquid, and it went up to one ear. The [Rower] got up immediately then something splashed his face. Venaz had landed. The Minotaur uttered a bellowing oath as the privy closed and the Lizardwoman shut the toilet lid. Only a sliver of light entered the communal tank. Luan sensed something with a very big body and four legs getting up next to him, making incoherent whinnying noises. Then there was a flicker of light.

“[Light].”

A very small orb appeared in Umina’s claws. She held it up and looked around. She was standing knee deep in—and Marian, Venaz, and Luan were covered in—

The [Light] spell went out. It was better that way. Luan tried not to breathe. Venaz spoke in a controlled voice.

“Where are we?”

Umina’s voice quavered. She spoke brightly, opting for cheerfulness.

“Uh…a communal waste pit? You see, Lizardfolk cities don’t have sewers. Too many things grow there. But we need to get rid of waste. So we dig these spots and empty them with, uh, [Nightmen]. Or [Nightwomen]. Although that’s an antiquated term that comes from Terandria with Humans, you know? The class is usually [Scourer], which sounds so much nicer. Or [Hauler] is a good generic one, because, you see, these have to be emptied. Or [Digger]. In fact, people in this line of work have to be good at digging, like the woman who runs this pit. We should be grateful she let us—”

“Umina. I’m going to murder you if you don’t shut up.”

Silence. After a second, Venaz spoke.

“I wish to leave. Now. Where’s my bag of holding?”

“…Are you talking to us?”

“No. The Human. Luan the Runner.”

“I am going to murder you, you damn Minotaur.”

“Oh. Uh, hello.”

“My bag of holding. Then we can be gone.”

“Where’s my money?”

“Hold on. I have it here. Hmph. I suppose this calls for a tip. Hold on. Let me just—”

“…Well?”

“Hah. Life is full of surprises. Would you believe I dropped my money pouch? Hold on, it might be in here.”



——



The mists rose. Thick and dark, like iron dust. The air grew heavy. Perorn felt it dragging at her legs. Her body.

You couldn’t run in it. It sapped energy. Sight became difficult. And these mists were worse. Magic began to fail in them. Lesser spells ceased.

An army could die in the mists. An army had died in the mists. Perorn remembered the darkness, fighting alone as her army lost maneuverability, was cut to shreds. Because the mists only affected his enemies. The Iron Vanguard strode through the mists as the shining figure walked at their head. She heard him as he passed her by. Tulm’s voice echoed in the dark plaza.

“[Battlefield – The Cold Iron Mists]. [Legions of Steel].”

The Wistram [Mages] choked. Perorn saw a desperate flare of magical light; a clear space opened around Teura. The [Mage] desperately held the mists back, but only in a radius around herself. She was sweating. And the screaming filled the air.

“Screamer Dust. He must have—earlier—is—fair—?”

The voice from the scrying orb was distorted, but Perorn had no eyes for the orb. She stared at Tulm. His Dullahans marched past her. And their bodies were—steel. Not just their armor, which looked thicker, but their skin. As if Tulm had given each one of his [Soldiers] an Ironskin Potion.

“Bastard.”

She croaked as he passed by, coughing in the mists. She knew the students had to be affected too; the mists were rolling through Daquin. Tulm could fill a battlefield with them.

The glowing figure stopped. A head turned, and silver eyes pierced through the mist.

“As I recall, the Professor used to say there was no such thing as cheating. Only intelligent preparation. Or does that only apply to his current students?”

Perorn had no answer to that. She just coughed. Tulm walked past her.

“Xol. Take your company north. I will catch the students from the south. From there, we hunt down those caught by the Screamer Dust that the patrols do not capture. The remainder will be found, or the time shall elapse.”

“By your order, Mithril.”

A giant walked through the mists. Perorn staggered blindly towards the shapes. Unfair. That was what she wanted to say. You couldn’t let someone like this fight against the students. It wasn’t fair. This was a Skill she had lost to. It wasn’t fair. It wasn’t—

“Perorn.”

A voice stopped the Centauress. Niers stood on his dais, in his circle, lost in the darkness. The Titan looked so small as she bent to speak with him.

“This is insane, Niers. How can anyone fight this?”

The tiny man looked up at Perorn. He reached up and grabbed her finger.

“Believe in them, Perorn. My Fleethoof.”

“I do. But—”

Perorn coughed. The mists were lightening. Teura was standing taller, gritting her teeth, banishing the fog around her. The air in the plaza lightened. Perorn stared at the half-Elf as she bent, panting. Niers raised his eyebrows.

“…I somewhat regret standing on her head now. That was impressive.”

“Thank you.”

The half-Elf wiped sweat from her eyes. She looked up at Perorn and gasped. The scrying orb had gone dark. Now it flickered to life, showing the Titan and Perorn. Teura’s voice rasped from it, a double of her voice as she spoke.

“What now, Titan of Baleros? Can your students handle this?”

Everyone was silent. Looking at him. Niers Astoragon stood small in the scrying orb, as the mists covered the city. The world waited with bated breath. The Midnight Shield turned their heads, waiting. And the Mithril strode through the city, leading thousands to crush hundreds. Students coughed and fought to breathe and see.

The Titan of Baleros looked up at the sky as the mists threatened to engulf the sky. And he sighed. And smiled.

“Yes. How many times do I have to say it? Yes.”

He pointed up.

“Your [Mage] on the watch tower. Have him take control of the spell. And look around. Probably towards the harbor. I think one of my [Strategists] is cornered there.”

Teura looked up. A Garuda [Mage] levitating in the sky next to Samile raised her wing. The scrying orb flickered. Perorn saw a city engulfed in dark, roiling iron, as if Tulm had torn down a cloudy sky and filled the city with it. She heard a gasp from the people around her. But she saw the mists had not fully engulfed the city yet.

They were slowly rolling down towards the harbor, the most distant point in Daquin. And sure enough, there was a young man standing at the docks. Wil. The young man was dripping as the [Mage] enhanced her vision. And standing next to him, aiming a wand, which blew apart a group of [Soldiers] slowly advancing down the docks, was a Gnoll.

“Feshi too. And a wand with a wind spell. Good lad. He’s generous and thinks of contingency plans.”

Niers smiled down at the image as Wil turned and hurled an orb that exploded and covered the area with fast-hardening mud that became as strong as stone in a second. The [Soldiers] still came on. Perorn stared down, willing them to run. They could at least dive! Or breakthrough! But the Gnoll and the Human held their ground.

“Lord Astoragon, what—”

Niers held up a hand. He closed his eyes. And Perorn saw a flicker of moisture as the Titan rubbed a finger across his eye.

“You see, he doubts himself. And he’s always questioning his place, I think. A good attitude to have, but he underestimates his strengths. Except when he’s on the field. Then he shows me that steel. That spine that the Kallinad family possess. Unwavering. Unyielding. And brilliant. And he’s my best student in logistics, bar none. He can plot a company’s course across a continent by the differences in their supplies, if you can believe that.”

“Lord As—”

“Shut up. He’s early. And so are they. But they can’t have missed it. And Wil was always willing to improvise. So here they come. Look. In this moment, Wil Kallinad is my best student.”

He pointed, and Perorn saw it. At first, it was only a flicker in the waters. The confused [Mage]’s gaze was fixed on the wrong place, on the dark harbor. But then she noticed it. And looked up. And Perorn saw the view shift up, going to clear skies.

The sun still shone. Beyond the dark city filled with clouds, the sky was clear. And the sun, slowly beginning to descend in the west, illuminated the shapes on the water.

Ships. They sailed towards the port, white sails billowing, running with a wind that blew against the darkness. The black vessels of the Iron Vanguard held their ground, and the Dullahans on the docks called out, firing warning spells over the port. But the warships never slowed.

Four of them. Four, to match the Iron Vanguard’s six. Smaller, perhaps, but not by much. And they sailed ahead, crewed by [Captains] without fear. Drowned Men. [Storm Sailors]. The wind blew on their backs as they shot towards the gaps in the blockade, filled by nets to capture smaller vessels.

The Iron Vanguard’s navy tried to turn. Tried to cast spells. But too slow. Too late. The first warship crashed into the prow of one of the warships and the stern of another and sailed through the gap, cracking through the thick wood. The other three ships sailed through other gaps, sending Dullahans [Sailors] tumbling into the water.

The boats surged towards the port. Towards the dock with Wil and Feshi. The [Soldiers] trying to apprehend the two had stopped to stare. A fist of fifty Iron Vanguard Dullahans led by a squad of [Riders] had joined the Forgotten Wing soldiers. They halted in place, watching the ships surging towards them. And they didn’t slow. The Dullahans backed up. The Forgotten Wing [Soldiers] fled.

The first warship crashed into the docks, sending wood splintering. It ran aground, the hull missing Feshi and Wil by less than a dozen feet. The Gnoll stared up at the ship. Then the side of the ship fell outwards. A ramp opened, exposing the ship’s belly.

“A transport ship?”

Perorn whispered. The gangways fell down, wide enough to drag a wagon down. And out they came. Rank after rank of gleaming [Knights] already mounted on warhorses. Their armor shone. They carried padded spears and practice swords. Weapons meant for tourneys. Jousts.

A game. The second warship hit the docks, slower, but ran aground and began unloading [Knights] as well. [Archers] on the decks shot blunt arrows at the Iron Vanguard unit, forcing them back.

“There are a thousand members of the Iron Vanguard here. Tulm could bring his ships to the harbor, perhaps, but it’s now occupied. Two thousand of the Forgotten Wing are also under his command. In case you ask, I gave Wil no instructions. No hints. I certainly didn’t tell him how many soldiers to bring. I will swear that on any truth spell in the world.”

The Titan’s voice was the only sound in the world. Perorn just stared down at the harbor. Hundreds of [Knights] were riding forwards. And behind them, [Squires], simple [Cavalrymen] and [Cavalrywomen], [Footsoldiers], [Archers], and even [Storm Sailors].

The crew of the ships leapt off the decks, whooping and fighting the [Soldiers] with fists and improvised clubs. [Mages] teleported off the ships or walked onto the water, already throwing magic at the iron mists.

But that was the backdrop. The tableau, the moment of forever, was the first [Knight] who’d charged off the ship, leaping her horse off the deck rather than wait for the gangplanks to go down. Perorn saw a flash of brown hair, a helmet falling. And an arm, reaching down to Wil as the [Strategist] reached up with a smile on his face.

“Who is that?”

“That would be his sister. Lady Talia Kallinad. [Summer Knight] of the Order of Seasons. And that is her order. And the Kallinad’s personal army. And the banners of a dozen other noble families too.”

The Titan wiped at his eyes. He looked old as he stood there. Old and as happy as Perorn had ever seen him. He sat down, watching as Wil pointed ahead and his sister broke away from their embrace.

“Full marks, Wil.”

The army of Humans formed up. And as Tulm the Mithril turned his head and listened to the report shouted at him and slowly raised a hand to cup it to his ear, the darkness hanging over Daquin lifted. The sun shone through for a second. And Wil, standing next to a wide-eyed Feshi, looked at his sister. She bowed.

“Your command, Sir [Strategist]?”

He took a deep breath. And he pointed as the [Knights] raised their padded spears.

“Charge.”





6.23 D


“You lost your money pouch.”

“No. Maybe. Perhaps. It might be down here.”

“Are you really searching—”

“Oh dead gods, Venaz!”

“Shut up, Marian. Move those hooves. I have to find my money pouch. I had a lot of gold in there.”

“It’s not worth looking through—watch those hands!”

“I am going to murder you.”

“Venaz, where were you? We saw you jump into the harbor.”

“Hmf. Hiding in an attic. I could ask you the same question, Umina. That is you, there, isn’t it?”

“Of course. We were in a ship—”

“Don’t tell him that! We’re competitors!”

“Oh? So you want to fight now, is it? I’m willing to settle the score, Marian.”

“Big talk from a Minotaur crouched next to my right hoof. Forget about the money, Venaz. It’s gone. You probably lost it in the harbor.”

“I’m going to kill you, Venaz. Do you hear me?”

“Then I’ll go back and find it there. I have to have my bag of holding.”

“Whoops! Hey! Watch the hands!”

“Sorry. I’m trying to kill the Minotaur.”

“We all want to kill the Minotaur. But—wait. Hold on. You said you’re a Runner? What’s one of your lot doing here?”

“I had a delivery for that Minotaur. Venaz. He dragged me into this. I’m going to kill him. Where is he?”

“Hm. Not here—”

“Hey!”

“Gah!”

“Sorry. Don’t get near me. This is a very small space. And it stinks! My hooves are twitchy.”

“Umina, you can cast magic. Light up this cesspit again.”

“Hold on, Venaz. That patrol was hot on our heels. We have to keep hidden!”

“Gah! Who’s near my tail.”

“Sorry. Where’s Venaz?”

“Over there.”

“No, that’s me.”

“Oh. Sorry, Umina.”

“I’ll have your gold. I swear to you, Luan the Runner. Just give me a second—”

“Alright, everyone shut up!”

“I’m going to—urk.”

“Gah!”

“Don’t kick me, Marian!”

“Okay. Okay. Everyone calm? Or do I need to kick you both again?”

“No.”

“No.”

“Very well. Let’s start from the beginning. Voices quiet. I think they’re searching the apartments.”

“…Quiet.”

“…oh no…”

“…No one here! Damn those students. What do you think—invisibility potion? Or…?”

“…Screamer Dust is off that group. Let’s follow the sounds instead. Besides, did you see that Minotaur? Huge, ugly bastard. Venaz, I think. One of the Titan’s top pet students. Not worth fighting that.”

“Steady, Venaz.”

“Get off me. I’m going up there.”

“Over your dead body!”

“I’ll help with that.”

“Shh!”

“…Nah. Let’s go. Sorry for the bother, Miss. Alright, patrol! Let’s—holy Nagas, what the hell is—run! Get out of—”

“…what luck! Is this a trick or..? …shh…”

“I think they’re gone.”

“No kidding? Wonder what scared them off?”

“Maybe some students? Those clouds that Tulm the Mithril conjured?”

“Could be.”

“Hmf. You should have let me go up there.”

“And blow our cover? This is our hiding spot, Venaz.”

“You’re welcome to it. I just followed you because I had no other choice. I want my bag of holding. I just need that money. Move over. I’m still searching.”

“Aw, Venaz—”

“I promised. I won’t forswear myself. This is—gah. I’ve waded through monster stomachs cleaner than this!”

“Venaz, stop. I’m serious. You’ll catch something, and you’re about to throw up.”

“Shut up—Umina. I promised. I need—”

“Will someone explain what’s happening?”

“Oh! Sorry. I forgot you were here. Your name’s…Luan?”

“Yes. What’s going on? What were those clouds? Why is the harbor filled with warships?”

“The Professor’s playing a game. Haven’t you heard?”

“Professor? What? No. You’re making no sense.”

“Sorry, I meant the Titan of Baleros.”

“What about him?”

“Uh—this could be tricky. Well, let me put it this way. Do you know about the Forgotten Wing company?”

“A little.”

“Raise that hoof, Marian. I feel—no. That’s not gold.”

“Venaz, stop. Look, Mister Human. This is all a game.”

“With magic fog, warships, and people trying to bash my skull in?”

“Yes?”

“Explain. Please.”

“Well, let’s start from the beginning. My name is Umina. I’m a student of Niers Astoragon. The Titan. That’s Marian, the Centauress who kicked you. And Venaz is the one on his hands and hooves.”

“I’ll find that gold. You have my bag of holding?”

“Yes. Okay, now what’s this about a game…?”

“Well—”



——



It was just a game. You could say that. Just a game. Why did it matter when there were people dying across the world? When monsters threatened lives, when war pressed down? There were some who would rail at the injustice. Why did a game matter? Why didn’t the world care about what was truly important, what mattered?

And they were right. And wrong. Because it was a game, yes, one where no one was supposed to die. On the other hand, it was a game set up by the Titan of Baleros. On one side you had Tulm the Mithril, the Iron Vanguard, and against him you had a class of students, all trying to reach their Professor in a plaza. Trying to make it to a small circle ten feet by ten feet across, to win a prize like no other.

The truth. And a gift from the Titan’s treasures. That alone made it a great game, one where the prize meant something. But the rest of it? The reason why the world watched?

Because it was real. It was true. The powers of the world, adults, rulers and leaders and monsters alike, watched children put everything they had on the line for victory. Striving, as hard as they could. And so was it a game or reality? A mix of both, perhaps.

It mattered. It mattered so much the losers wept. It mattered enough for an army to sail from Terandria. Now they clashed on the street, with [Soldiers] from the Forgotten Wing and Iron Vanguard. And those soldiers gritted their teeth and held their ground, fighting with blunted weapons, breaking bones, drawing blood. Because although it was a game, they had pride. They wanted to win.

They all did. You could see it in the students’ eyes, hear it in their voices. The tremble, the longing.

Victory.

And that was why Luan could rationalize it all. He was standing up to his calves in…muck. Excrement. He was, in fact, standing in a septic tank, a collective latrine used by the citizens of Daquin. He had seen the very same thing in Talenqual; the pits were filled, as it were, by a block or a few houses, and periodically emptied by [Nightmen], by [Scourers]—those employed to take the collected matter. It was, after all, valuable in its way. You could use it as fertilizer.

But why anyone would stand here stretched the City Runner’s belief. The South African man might well have believed this was all some prank, or that Venaz, the Minotaur breathing shallowly next to him, was entirely insane. Until he heard the Minotaur’s voice. Until the Centauress, Marian, and the Lizardgirl, Umina, explained. Then he understood.

Not everything. The feud between the Titan and his student, the politics of the Iron Vanguard, the fact that these three [Strategists] were students at some kind of academy, and so on was a lot to digest. But Luan already believed. Part of him already understood the important part. Because of who Luan was.

An athlete. An aspiring champion. Someone who competed in the truest sense of the world. He, Luan, had made his life’s dream about victory. He had a window; his body would grow old, and he would lose his edge all too quickly. He could lose his chance thanks to injury, bad luck, any number of factors. But if he succeeded? If he trained until his sweat was blood? If he had the drive and will and courage?

He could have been the best in the world. Unmatched. Luan would have competed against the world’s finest, in front of millions. And win or lose, he would still have numbered among the greatest in his sport, in what he did.

So yes, Luan understood what drove the students. Better than Ken could have. He listened as they told him why they were here. And he understood.

It still didn’t make standing in sewage any more fun. But it stopped Luan from trying to kill Venaz. The Minotaur was doing the exact opposite of hyperventilating as he tried to search the waste he was standing in. Luan heard swearing, sounds of disgust, gagging—until the [Rower] could bear it no more.

“Enough. Stop looking around. You’re not going to find it.”

“I have to have my bag of holding.”

The Minotaur’s voice was steady as he straightened. He was barely visible with the tiny crack of light that came from the privy above. Luan reached for the Minotaur’s possession, the bag of holding.

“To win, yeah? Take it.”

He offered it. Venaz hesitated.

“But my gold—”

“I’ll track you down after this. And if you don’t pay me, I’ll…”

Luan hesitated. Threatening to break Venaz’s legs or offer the Minotaur any kind of physical harm was ludicrous.

“…I’ll make sure the Runner’s Guild hears all about this. But you want to win.”

“I must.”

“Then—here.”

Luan held the bag of holding out. And the Minotaur hesitated again.

“I should pay you first. This lacks credibility. You were right to demand your payment. It’s dishonorable.”

There was a plaintive note in his voice. Luan hesitated. He wondered what Ken would have said if he were here. If he had told Luan about Minotaurs—but it was the competitor who spoke back to Venaz.

“Do you want to win, or not? I don’t know about your Professor or this grand secret. But do you want victory?”

“Yes.”

“Then take it.”

Luan thrust the bag of holding out. It wasn’t exactly light—it felt like it was ten pounds of weight, despite being very small. It also felt full. But Luan hadn’t undone the drawstring. He waited for a moment. Then there was a splash—he felt a huge presence, and then a hand closed over his wrist. Venaz spoke softly.

“Thank you.”

Luan didn’t know what to say to that. Frankly, he was still angry. His boat was damaged, possibly sunk. He was covered in—and he’d been chased and nearly beaten black and blue by the soldiers on the street. But after his anger had faded and he’d heard what was going on, the students’ situation had impressed itself on him. He looked around.

“So you’re all in the same class? The Titan’s class?”

The three shapes nodded. Luan tried to be suitably impressed. But even though he knew of the Titan of Baleros, he didn’t know the legends well enough to be in awe. And the three had done little to impress him. Now the Centaur shifted her hooves. She—Marian—spoke.

“If you’re worried about Venaz paying you, don’t be. He’d rather drink this entire midden’s contents than renege on his word. He’ll pay you after this is over, Luan, is it?”

“That’s right.”

Venaz made a snorting noise to Luan’s right as he opened the bag of holding.

“You’re exaggerating, Marian. If I had to choose between breaking my word over fifty gold pieces or drinking this filth, I’d rather give up fifty gold. Kraken’s tooth, but this is disgusting! Umina, what possessed you to hide here? I can’t see anything either.”

The Lizardgirl spoke up nervously. She had a higher-pitched voice, and from the way she shifted, was clearly more hesitant than her two companions. She sounded younger, too.

“Well…it’s a perfect hiding spot, isn’t it? Short of magic, no one will even think to look here. Dogs won’t sniff us out—we could hide for a long time here.”

“I’d rather be caught.”

Marian groaned. She sounded faintly sick. Luan was trying not to breathe. The smell did not get better over time. He looked around.

“Well, I did my job. Can I leave now?”

“No.”

All three students said it at once. Luan scowled.

“Why?”

“You’ll give us away. We need to win this thing.”

“You mean, get to the center of the city and reach your Professor? Like a game of capture the flag?”

“Hm? Well, I suppose so. It’s a lot more involved than that. Did you notice the soldiers?”

“I was nearly beaten by the soldiers. What kind of game has people attacking City Runners and civilians?”

Venaz grunted.

“What kind of proper game wouldn’t have that? Damn. I can’t find…Umina, can I get some light?”

“Sure. Just for a second. [Light].”

The Lizardgirl cast a spell. A hovering orb of light illuminated their surroundings. Luan saw moldy, slimy wooden walls, the Lizardgirl, a Centauress standing next to her, Venaz, one filthy hand holding the bag of holding—and then the [Rower] realized that Umina had illuminated what he was standing in.

He wished she hadn’t. Luan looked down and retched. It was semi-liquid, that was true. But there were…crusts. Venaz made the same mistake and uttered an oath. Marian began dry-heaving.

“Sorry!”

The light disappeared, but Luan had enough. He raised a hand, realized what was on it, and let it fall.

“I wish to leave now.”

“You can’t. I’m sorry, but we need a plan. Those mists rolled in moments after the Screamer Dust. Tulm the Mithril must have used one of his Skills, or his [Mages] conjured something incredible!”

“That was a Skill. [Cold Iron Mists] or something like it. A [Mage]-killer technique. Lesser artifacts and spells will fail inside of the fog. And we’ll be weighed down. Not that it matters. I intend to move shortly. What of you two? We are competitors, but given what we’re up against, I wouldn’t mind teaming up.”

Venaz was pulling something out of his bag of holding. Luan heard a clank and then saw the Minotaur shifting. Venaz was lifting something up.

“Watch out or I’ll hit you.”

Luan shifted back a few steps. Marian lifted a foot with a wet, sucking sound.

“Umina, both your ideas are good hiding places. And I think we could hide here for a good time. But we need to win, not just hide. That’s the point of the game. We haven’t figured out how to defeat the Iron Vanguard, but we won’t manage it here. And frankly, if I have to stay here another minute longer than I have to, I will kill you and everyone down here ending with myself.”

She sounded serious. Luan shifted back from her. Umina sighed.

“I suppose you’re right. But we are at such a…I don’t know how to take on those Dullahans. You’d need an army! This isn’t just hide-and-seek. They can seal off the plaza with how many bodies they have. But you’re right. Venaz, a team up? What did you bring in that bag of holding?”

Marian shifted again.

“And why did you have a City Runner deliver it? You could have just…brought one. I did.”

Venaz’s voice was muffled for a second. Luan heard another metallic rasp.

“I thought our possessions might be confiscated, or the Professor would have interfered with our equipment somehow. I expected a trick. Just not the Iron Vanguard. Historically, he’s pulled tricks like this before—confiscating all the students’ equipment and clothing and making them hide naked in the jungles. Casting an anti-magic spell that wiped out their equipment. Unleashing [Thieves] on them before the games started—”

“Dead gods. He did all that?”

The Minotaur’s voice was reproving.

“You should have studied. The Professor’s created countless undesirable scenarios. I thought a City Runner would ensure I got my possessions and maintained a huge advantage. Now, I wish I’d hired a mercenary company instead. Still, I feel better prepared now. Ready to leave?”

“Yes.”

The others chorused as one. Umina waded past Luan and shouted up at the door.

“Excuse me! We need out!”

“Already?”

There were hurrying footsteps. A flash of light. Luan looked up at a [Nightwoman], a Lizardwoman whose job it was to wade in what he was standing in every day. He had never had more appreciation for her class than now. Umina looked apologetic.

“Sorry, we can’t handle the smell. Mind if you get us a ladder? Er—stairs, for Marian? I’m really sorry.”

The Lizardwoman smiled.

“Aw, for you, anything. And we can get the Centauress up—we’ve got a platform for emergencies. You wouldn’t believe how many Centaurs fall in the toilet each year!”

“That happens? And thank you!”

The Lizardwoman disappeared. That left Luan and the other students standing in the now-illuminated tank. Luan shifted, saw something float past one foot—he closed his eyes.

The wail of the Screamer Dust had subsided, but he could still hear lots of shouting at a distance. More so than before, in fact. A game that engulfed an entire city? He shook his head. Well, it was the Titan of Baleros…he wanted to dunk himself in the harbor right after this.

“Nearly there! Hold on! It’s a bit heavy, but we’ve got a few hands! Don’t drop it on Umina, you guys! I’m rooting for her! Stand back!”

“We?”

Venaz looked alarmed as everyone moved to the side. Umina waved a claw at him.

“This apartment belongs to, uh, the night soil collectors around here. I think they like to stick together.”

“Or no one else tolerates their company.”

“Venaz! They’re really nice. And that’s true. Okay, let’s get up there, ask what’s happened, and—”

A flash of light. Marian, who had been silent and trying not to throw up, suddenly spoke urgently.

“Umina, we need to leave, now.”

“Why? Wh—”

Umina, Luan, and Venaz saw the hatch opening. Behind them. The stairwell the [Nightpeople] lowered, and the open privy was one spot of light, but on the far side of the wide tank a hatch had opened, to expose light into the darkness. And someone was preparing to—Luan climbed up the steps so fast he nearly knocked over Umina ahead of him. Venaz was right behind Luan, and Marian moaned as she got up the stairs.

“Oh, dead gods, dead gods, dead gods.”

“Sorry about that. Here. Let’s get you some water and, uh, more water.”

The [Nightwoman] looked apologetically at her guests. There was a small crowd of her co-workers around her, mostly Lizardfolk and three Dullahans. They insisted on shaking hands—after a few buckets of water had been splashed on all four. It didn’t get rid of the smell, but it helped. Luan breathed freely as Umina spoke to the [Nightwoman] again.

“We’re really sorry. I could handle it, but my friends…we also have to get moving, I guess. Still, you saved us from that patrol.”

The [Scourers] beamed as one, treating Umina like she was a minor celebrity. Which she…was? Luan eyed Umina as he sluiced himself off with more water. Venaz was demanding soap.

“No problem! Pleasure to be of assistance! This game is so exciting! And we want you to win, of course! When I think that you were using this pit—whenever I clean it, I’ll think of you! And, uh—”

She peered at Luan with a frown.

“Is he a student too? Not one of the Titan’s personal class, is he? I know all the names. Unless he’s a new addition?”

“No, no. I’m a City Runner. And I really should be going—”

Luan raised his hands hurriedly. He looked towards the doors.

“I’ll find you later, Venaz, yeah?”

“Yes. Wait in the city. I’ll be sure to get you your money.”

The Minotaur breathed in and out. Only now did Luan realize something had changed about him.

He was wearing armor. The metal gleamed as water ran down it. Umina turned and stared along with Marian and the other [Nightpeople]. Venaz gritted his teeth.

“What? I told you I came prepared for a fight. This is only part of my gear. I’m not hiding any longer. Ready to go?”

“Nearly. Just one question. You said you were a City Runner, Mister Luan?”

Marian dumped a bucket of water over her tail. Luan nodded.

“I go by water, though. I’m a [Rower].”

The Centauress frowned.

“Odd. How’d you get through the harbor, then? The Iron Vanguard had at least six warships sealing it off.”

Luan smiled faintly.

“Well, they didn’t manage to seal it off fast enough. I slipped through.”

Everyone stared at him. Marian blinked.

“You got past six warships? In…what? A dingy?”

“A scull.”

“A what?”

Venaz snorted, then turned his head and spat back into the privy. The [Nightpeople] looked disapproving at that.

“He’s the fastest City Runner on the water short of a Courier now. Why else do you think I hired him?”

“Huh. Then are you any good in a fight?”

Marian eyed Luan. The City Runner hesitated.

“Not much good. But I served in a suppression company once. Saw some fighting, but I’m mainly good at rowing. Very good, actually. Why?”

Umina was looking at her friend. Marian was thinking hard. At last she came to a decision and reached for a bag at her waist.

“Mind staying with us? I’ll pay you twenty gold coins and Venaz’s fee right now if you help us win this game.”

“Marian!”

Umina exclaimed as Luan’s eyes went wide. Venaz blinked at the gold Marian held out to the City Runner.

“You want to hire my Runner? Why?”

“An edge. Luan’s a City Runner, and he’s free to hire, right? Why can’t we hire help? The other students have done it.”

“Still, twenty gold pieces? Is he worth—”

Luan glared at the Minotaur. He hesitated over the gold coins.

“I’m afraid that arrogant cow’s right, Miss…Marian. I’m not good off the water.”

Venaz choked and turned red. Marian smiled.

“Just for calling Venaz a cow, I’d hire you. You made it this far. One person could make all the difference. What about it? You won’t break more than bones, and if you do, there’s healing potions at the ready. And I want to win. Umina?”

The Lizardgirl started.

“You sure, Marian? The gold—”

“—is mine to use. If we win, it’s worth it. What about it, Luan the City Runner? My [Headhunter] Skill says you’re more valuable than I think.”

The Centauress stared at Luan. He blinked at her. And then he looked at Venaz.

Victory. The man smiled wearily.

“Well, why not? I’m in it this far. I could use some money and a diversion.”

He took the coins from Marian. She offered him the twenty gold pieces; he declined the rest. He’d get it from Venaz. The Minotaur snorted as Luan stepped up behind him. Umina was thanking their hosts.

“If there’s anything we can do—we can’t fight, but we can make sure those Iron Vanguards have clogged privies if they stick around long enough!”

The [Nightwoman] chortled. Umina laughed.

“We’ll let you know. Alright. Ready?”

Venaz nodded. He thrust open the door to the apartment and stepped out, fists clenched. His armor shone as he strode out, ready for war. Marian followed. She’d drawn a bow from her bag of holding. Umina and Luan had only their fists and a few items at their belt, but they followed. Ready for anything. Ready to take on the Iron Vanguard. Ready for—

“Forwards! Take the street!”

A rank of men and women in armor galloped down the street. Venaz lurched backwards, fists raised. But the Humans in armor weren’t aimed at him. They were pursuing a group of Dullahans and Lizardfolk! Banners streamed behind them as they rode forwards in a wedge. Behind them came thunder.

Marching boots. Shouts. Luan saw dozens of Humans racing past him, armed with shields, clubs, some holding bows. Another rider was leading them, bellowing orders.

“[Knights] move up in spear formation! Archers, divide with foot soldiers and take those two rooftops. The rest of you, shield formation and move up—”

He thundered past the group of four. Luan heard the soldiers streaming down the street shouting as well.

“For Kallinad and the Order of Seasons!”

“Push the Iron Vanguard back!”

“Wil Kallinad! Victory for Terandria!”

And then they were gone. The sound of battle broke ahead of them. Venaz stared down the street. He walked out a few paces and stared at the backs of the running Humans. Marian trotted out behind him. Umina and Luan stared after them.

“Did they just say ‘Kallinad’? Was that a mercenary company or something?”

“Uh, maybe? Maybe—”

All four looked back. They flattened themselves back into the apartment as a second wave charged down the street, and then a third. Then they heard the horn blasts. Then, as the four climbed to the rooftop and the rooftop audience pointed them towards the harbor, they saw the four warships at the docks. Luan’s jaw dropped.

Those weren’t there when I left!

Venaz, Marian, and Umina were all staring. The streets were filled with Humans fighting the Iron Vanguard! Pushing them back! Venaz stared at a rank of [Knights] as they harried a group of Dullahans.

“Ah. I…might have underestimated Wil.”

“No kidding? Hey, Venaz? Exactly what did you bring in your bag of holding?”

Marian and Umina turned to the Minotaur. He coughed, and looked into his bag of holding. The Minotaur rummaged around inside, pulled out a mace, a few pieces of paper with glowing lettering, a picture of a colorful dog…he put them back in the bag and looked around.

“Damn. Well, now I feel really foolish.”



——



An army in the streets! Warships in the harbor! Chaos reigned in the plaza where Niers Astoragon stood. Not just among the Iron Vanguard; they were scrambling to react. Somewhere in the streets filled with grey fog, Tulm the Mithril had halted his advance to deal with the unexpected attack. But the arrival of the army Wil Kallinad was leading had thrown everyone into confusion.

The Wistram [Mages] were scrambling to get a new vantage point on the battle. Teura was ordering more [Mages] to watch Wil. And members of Niers’ own company, like Perorn, were visibly ecstatic. The Centauress was practically prancing in place with delight.

“Dignity, Perorn.”

Niers murmured out of the side of his mouth. But he couldn’t hold back his smile either. He watched as Wil sent the soldiers still disembarking from the warships charging up the streets, gaining as much ground as possible before the Iron Vanguard could regain their footing. Niers would have been happy to watch in silence, with only the audio from the scene.

But, sadly, there were always those whose first reaction to an unfolding drama was to give their opinion about it. The sort of people who would be standing in the crowd as someone drowned and offering their commentary on the other people diving in. Those sorts. And unfortunately, there were two who were debating the latest turn of events even as the images of Wil, his sister, and the army she was leading appeared on the scrying orb.

“Four warships filled with [Soldiers] and even a [Knight] order! Unbelievable, and the crews themselves are taking part! Amazing! Incredible! An inspiring turn of events! Sir Relz, can you credit this?”

The two Drakes were leaning over their upholstered arm chairs, staring at their own scrying orb and loudly speaking to their captive audience. The one with the monocle was nodding rapidly, but with a huge frown on his face in contrast to Noass’ look of amazement.

“I can, Noass, I can—I have eyes! But I don’t know that inspiring is the word I would use. Think on it, Noass. Yes, this is a game-changer. But is it fair?”

He gestured to the image in the scrying orb as Noass sat back, confused.

“Anyone with the might of a Terandrian house could have pulled off this tactic. That the other students in the Titan’s classes haven’t isn’t due to a lack of skill. Consider this, Noass. If Wil Kallinad can pull an army out of his pocket, how can anyone else hope to compete?”

Niers saw Noass sit up a bit. He wondered if the Drake’s guild of assassins was still extant. Did they do contracts on public figures? He saw Noass cup his chin in his hand as he pointed at the orb, mildly outraged.

“Hold on, Sir Relz. I have to respectfully disagree with your assessment. Even if you knew Tulm the Mithril were going to appear in this game, Sir Relz, could you convince your family to send over a thousand soldiers to another continent? Let alone call on half a dozen other noble houses?”

He waved a claw at Wil, who had appeared in the scrying orb again in between his comments.

“And let me remind our audience that no one saw these warships coming! Not even the Iron Vanguard, which boasts the most powerful navy of all the Great Companies in Baleros bar none! Sir Relz, how can you dismiss that as simply the product of wealth?”

The other Drake adjusted his monocle haughtily as he frowned at his friend.

“I just have a hard time giving this as much credit as you, Noass. To me, this stinks of an advantage born of station, not achievement. I realize that my own position as a noble contradicts my statements, but I am a son of Pallass, not some arrogant Lord of the Wall, like Salazsar’s jumped up tyrants.”

“Oh, come now, Sir Relz. You can’t make this entirely referential to Drake politics. Even if you’re going to bring in someone like—like Wall Lord Ilvriss as a point of comparison—”

Mercifully, whoever was controlling the broadcast decided the two Drakes were getting off-topic. Their voices cut off, and Niers could focus on Wil. The Titan watched with a [Strategist]’s bird’s eye view as he saw Wil’s forces moving and Tulm’s preparing to intercept. Not bad. Then again, he’d see how well Wil was doing and how shaken Tulm was in a few minutes. He murmured to himself as he reached for his lime juice.

“I saw it coming. But I knew where to look.”

The Drake [Commentator] duo was half-right this time. It wasn’t just that Wil had the resources to call on; it was that he’d figured out Tulm the Mithril was coming. He had plotted a sea route that took the warships to Daquin’s harbor without alerting a Great Company or the other ships at sea. Yes, they hadn’t been looking, but still. If you understood anything of logistics, of the effort it took to move that many warriors, you would look at Wil and want him to manage your armies.

It was proof of his ability. But there was another reason why countless eyes were glued to the scrying orb, to the drama unfolding in Daquin. It was sheer, simple amazement. Admiration.

The daring. The audacity. Noass was right. If you had the chance, even if you were nearly completely certain, would you risk it? Could you? Niers looked up. Teura was watching him again. He cheerfully smiled at her.

Yes, they were all watching. Everyone from the [Kings] of Terandria to the Wall Lords in Izril. Watching Niers’ student. Evaluating him as a [Strategist], to be hired or fought against.

Wil Kallinad. A name known around the world in a moment. He was challenging Tulm the Mithril to a battle in the streets. Putting himself against the greatest [Strategist] of the Iron Vanguard on purpose. This was his moment. Niers only hoped he made the best of it.



——



He stood in the street, with a map of Daquin unrolled on the back of his sister’s warhorse. His ears were ringing. The ground felt like it was shaking.

Dark clouds rolling down the street. Flashes of armor. Ringing hooves, [Knights] riding past him, armor ablaze with the light of magic.

“Wil! I brought half of the reinforcements you asked straight from our garrisons! The other half came from the families you contacted! We got them on ships, and the [Captains] are letting their sailors take part! They were really impressed with your sea route, and they’d just love a chance to stick it to the Iron Vanguard—”

His hands were sweaty. Shaking. Heart beating out of his chest. [Mages] made the air shake as they held the cold iron fog off. Flashes of magefire from the rooftops. Skirmishes already.

“Lord Kallinad, my name is Sir Kelm. I am a Knight of Autumn and the Order of Season’s representative. I and a hundred and twenty-six of my peers have joined Lady Knight Talia by her request. We understand this is a non-lethal confrontation and have equipped ourselves accordingly—”

Glancing up. Seeing a Drowned Man with a tentacle for an arm, holding a club with his good hand, grinning at him with a face half-fish.

“I didn’t bring any [Strategists], but we’ve got an army here, Wil! And with the crews of the ship—you know, I got three propositions from the sailors on the way here?”

The horse snorting, shaking, restless. Glancing up. Checking the slowly setting sun, seeing Feshi’s wide eyes and shocked expression. A ring of steel. [Knights], [Field Commanders], [Captains], surrounding him. Waiting. Doubtful, impatient, excited.

“Sir Kallinad! I am Lance-Commander Wylint, serving House Teoring and commanding two hundred of my men! We are disembarking and looking for orders—”

Glance up. See Talia’s face. Excitement, passion. Her horse shifting. The creak of metal on metal. Waiting faces.

Fear. Terror. Uncertainty. Elation. A thousand and one emotions and more, running hot in his veins. And just when he thought he’d break under it, a realization. The Professor’s words, beating in his chest.

“You only get one chance, lad.”

“What’s that? Wil?”

Concerned faces. Wil Kallinad glanced up, taking in the ring of Humans around him. One Drowned Man, a [Captain]. And Feshi. The Gnoll stared at Wil. And he breathed in and out slowly.

For a moment, Wil looked around and memorized the moment. And he knew that as long as he lived, he would never forget this day. Never lose this moment. Whether it was in shame or glory. He stood a bit straighter. The fear and panic in his breast didn’t disappear. It never did. But he mastered it.

Thank you, Professor. You gave me a chance.

“Wil? Are you—”

The [Strategist] turned. He cut his sister off. He checked the sun, and began snapping orders.

“Lance-Commander Wylint, you are now acting-[General] on the field. Unload those ships! I want the soldiers moving up the streets as fast as they unload! Don’t worry about formations! We’re taking the first six streets from the harbor and holding there. Keep a [Mage] on standby and I’ll have orders for you in minutes!”

“Sir!”

Will turned and surveyed the people around him. His mind was snapping to ideas and conclusions like lightning, too fast to fully process into words. The [Captain]? No. The [Knight] in brown and red, stained armor. Autumn Knight.

“The Iron Vanguard is using [Message] spells, but they have horns and drums as well. We’ll relay using messengers on horseback, so we’re not relying on either one exclusively in case of interception or faked signals. Sir Kelm, take your men down the main street. Engage the enemy at your discretion, but fall back in the face of superior numbers or if Xol is spotted. I will send you reinforcements as needed; the other [Rider] and [Knight] patrols I will split up across side streets. We will be preparing to flank and ambush the enemy; all mounted forces are to prioritize withdrawing.”

“Hit and run tactics? But we brought—”

His sister was confused. Wil held up a hand, not looking at her as he checked the map.

“The Iron Vanguard has the numbers and superior soldiers. They’ve also fielded Xol, one of their War Walkers. We cannot take him.”

“If we used lances—”

He glanced up. Talia was taking a breath, ready to argue. Sir Kelm was watching, the [Captain] grinning. Wil glanced at the waiting officers. Some were watching him. He nodded shortly.

“If this were a situation where both sides used lethal weapons, I wouldn’t have brought half as many [Knights]. Especially against the Iron Vanguard; they can’t kill our horses or unseat our cavalry as easily. But this is still the Professor’s game. We’re pushing in fast; the goal is still to reach the central plaza. Commander Wylint! These streets I want fortified! Here, here, and here!”

He stabbed chokepoints. It was easy. He’d memorized the map a week ago, and he knew where the Iron Vanguard’s force roughly was. If you calculated how fast a Dullahan could run—they could dig in. After that…Talia was glaring at him.

“Wil! We can win this! I didn’t talk father into coming all this way just to run from a fight. Trust me, we can—”

“Knight Talia, the [Strategist] on the field is speaking.”

“I—”

His sister fell silent. Wil nodded to Sir Kelm. The [Knight] saluted.

“By your order, Sir [Strategist]. What’s the signal for retreat in case of emergency?”

Of course. Wil hesitated.

“Three horn calls, Sir Kelm. My apologies.”

He nodded and Wil remembered. Don’t flush with embarrassment. Don’t panic. He switched to the Drowned Man.

“[Captain].”

“Captain Squallcut, at your service.”

The Drowned Man gave Wil a grin. One of his eyes was part fish, and it winked with a pale, yellow light. The Terandrian officers shuddered. Wil glanced around.

“To your stations! Move those men up with Commander Wylint! Are you waiting for the Iron Vanguard to set a picnic!”

They jumped and ran. Squallcut laughed and gave Wil a bow that looked halfway sincere.

“So you’re not just able to plot a course through the ocean currents, then? A master on the deck.”

Wil felt a grin take over his face, unfamiliar. Wild. His heart was beating. He could feel it, louder than war drums.

“This is my ship, Captain Squallcut. Can I trust your men to take orders, or won’t they obey?”

The Drowned Man was amused. He waved an arm, and two more [Captains] followed him. One was a Gnoll with a peg leg, a bandana tied over her head. The second, a Garuda whose feathers on his legs had turned to scales.

“They came for a fight, not a Terandrian dancing lesson. If the orders are good, we’ll think of obeying.”

Feshi turned and bowed to the Gnoll [Captain]. The Gnoll grinned.

“So this is the Human who sailed us through the Kraken’s Gulch? He barks fire! Little land-cousin, does he have the courage to lead a [Storm Sailor] crew? And take the consequences of failure?”

The Gnoll [Strategist] hesitated. Wil answered for her. He didn’t know Gnolls, but he knew [Pirates].

“What’s your name, [Captain]?”

The Gnoll with the peg leg gave Wil a long look. She wore a cutlass at her side.

“They call me Saltears, boy. On the sea, that is. If you want my real name, ask me when I’m in irons.”

“Then stow your sword, Saltears. No one draws blood.”

“Says who?”

“The Titan himself. And he’ll drown Storm Sailors in the waves if his orders aren’t obeyed.”

The Gnoll paused. She looked at Wil. The young man met her eyes and then the Garuda’s and Squallcut’s. They were watching him closely.

“I don’t need your men, [Captains]. But if you and your ship’s crews will fight, on land or sea, I’ll pad whatever my sister’s paying you myself. The Iron Vanguard will be attacking us from the rear. And we have to sally forth and reach the plaza. But mark me—if your crew won’t take my orders, you can wait on the sides. I mean to dance with Tulm the Mithril himself, and I’ll drag him over the world’s edge if I need to. There’s no room for mutiny in this battle. Understand?”

They waited. And then the same grin spread across three faces. Saltears removed her cutlass and tossed it backwards towards a [Storm Sailor].

“Boy, we’ll hold your harbor against six warships or twenty! The rest of my lads will move with your land slugs. Where do you want me?”

Wil bared his teeth.

“Can you punch through a street full of Dullahans? I want you to bring a message to a bunch of students fighting. There’s several hundred of them—some are officers, others are [Strategists]. Tell them I’m overseeing the command of Kallinad’s army. If they want to fight, they can flank the enemy soldiers. We’re all going towards the same spot. You need to cut through the Iron Vanguard to get there—and those clouds. [Mages] choked in them.”

The [Captains] looked up. Saltears perked up one of her ears.

“Good thing we’re not [Mages]. Say I do that. What then?”

“How’s thirty gold pieces for every officer you knock out sound?”

The Gnoll [Captain] grinned as a reply. Wil straightened. Negotiations were done. The [Captains] strolled past the soldiers forming up. Wil pointed.

“[Mages]! Hold those mists back. Sir Kelm, advance!”

The [Knight] raised a padded spear.

“Knights of the Autumn, with me!”

And they moved. Wil snatched his map and strode back. A group of [Mages] and officers approached him. The first thing he demanded was a table. He heard Talia mounting up behind him.

“Wil? Where do we go?”

Her voice was tentative, but it was a fair question. A group of knights in bright, burnished armor of gold, brass—the colors of summer—were lined up behind her. Wil raised his head.

Fighting. He pointed at the map.

“Move forwards. Gather at the second command spot. [Mages], you have your orders. Horse! Feshi—”

The Gnoll grinned at Wil as he mounted up.

“You planned this. Am I part of the plans?”

“Only if you want to be. Can you ride?”

The Gnoll hesitated. Then she held up a hand. Wil pulled her onto the saddle. He felt her grab him as he turned to his sister.

“Talia! We’re supporting Sir Kelm! Take us down that street!”

His sister whooped as she lowered the visor on her helmet.

“Forward, Knights of Summer! Take the streets!”

She began riding forwards. Wil kicked the horse into motion. He saw Talia’s head twisting towards him, and she raised her visor in alarm.

“Wil! Stay back! You’re trying to win, remember?”

“We need to push in. We’ll reform later. You need me.”

There was no time to argue. The [Knights] rode forwards, a solid body. Wil eyed the numbers. Disperse them later. For now, they were a fist. He intended to gain as much ground as he could.

“Infantry ahead! They’re filling a street!”

A [Scout] raced back. Wil saw Humans already skirmishing with a group of Dullahans who’d blocked off a street exit ahead of him. It hadn’t even been ten minutes! The Iron Vanguard had lightning reflexes. He pointed at the group as the Knights of Summer slowed.

“Pull the soldiers back. We’re breaking through. Advance at a trot!”

Thunder. The Human [Soldiers] fell back. The Dullahans did not follow. They looked up and saw the riders coming at them. To their credit, the line only wavered. Then it formed into a solid formation. Braced. Wil kicked his horse.

“Canter!”

Faster now. He could see the Dullahan [Sergeant] shouting orders as the [Knights] lowered the thin lances as spears. Wil shouted.

“Stow lances! Swords!”

Hesitation. He saw the [Knights] switching weapons. Padded spears might kill at this charge. The Dullahans were also pikeless. But they were still braced. They thought the [Knights] wouldn’t charge for fear of their horses injuring themselves. That was their only mistake.

“Gallop!”

On they came. Feshi was howling something behind Wil. He roared as the first rank of [Knights] closed on the ranks of Dullahans.

“[Ram’s Charge]!”

The Dullahans’ [Sergeant] raised his hand too late, eyes widening.

“[Shieldwall—]”

The impact sent Dullahans flying. Wil saw the formation scatter like pebbles before a wave. He shouted as he saw [Knights] lashing out with swords.

“Ride on! Keep moving! Avoid trampling!”

The Humans caught their horses just in time. The wounded Dullahans pulled back as the Knights of the Summer raced past them. Wil looked around. He bellowed one word.

“[Healers]!”

They were already converging on the fight. Wil pointed, and his [Knights] rode onwards. Faster. He bared his teeth. Take as much ground as he could in the first few minutes. And then push! Push!

He could feel the Iron Vanguard reacting. Moving to slow his army’s advance, hold them back before they could consolidate their position. And soon he’d be sending the full weight of his army against Wil. Tulm the Mithril. Wil pointed ahead.

“Charge!”

The clouds of grey iron waited. His [Knights] cut a path of silver as they rode into darkness. And then there was only thunder. And, waiting in the darkness, that magical shine. That flash of armor.

Mithril.



——



An army of silver raced across the streets below them. Venaz stared. Marian paced back and forth, counting. Umina rubbed at her eyes.

“Whoa. Is that the same Wil we know?”

He was racing at the head of a small vanguard of [Knights], some kind of elite Terandrian order. Umina looked at her classmates. They were almost petrified for a moment. Strangely, it was the City Runner they’d just met, Luan, who was calmer. He looked up and met her eyes.

“Some game. Was this part of the plan as well?”

She grinned weakly.

“No.”

“Dead gods. Wil called in his family’s army. If this were any other situation, this would be an act of war.”

Marian spoke slowly. She followed the Humans as hundreds raced down the street. There were [Sailors] mixed in among them; Umina thought she saw a Gnoll with a peg leg. But her mind had to be playing tricks on her. Venaz nodded.

“Incredible.”

Both the Lizardgirl and Centaur looked at Venaz. Coming from him, that word said it all. The Minotaur glanced up. He gestured to the streets below.

“He’s turned this into a proper battle. This isn’t a game of seeking anymore. The Mithril has to engage the Humans, or they’ll punch through and get Wil to the plaza. Look: the Iron Vanguard’s already pulling back.”

He pointed ahead. Only a few of Daquin’s streets were visible from their rooftop ahead of them, but Umina saw Dullahans in full retreat. She nodded slowly, watching the Humans capturing street after street. But what looked like a complete victory was just an illusion. Umina had already done a headcount and come to a few conclusions.

“They’re still outnumbered. The Iron Vanguard plus the Professor’s [Soldiers] still have at least a two-to-one advantage over Wil’s force. Plus, their main punching class is [Knight]. They’ve got horses, but not enough, and they’re up against Dullahans. And the Iron Vanguard at that. Heavy-infantry specialists.”

“Mobility versus armor.”

Marian nodded. She was frowning. The Centauress glanced up at Venaz.

“It’s like the battles we’d play out, Venaz. Only, in these streets, Tulm has it.”

“Only if you discount the other students.”

The Minotaur snorted. He was eying a plume of smoke in the distance, arms folded.

“I see what Wil’s going for. He’s trying to link up with the other students who bought adventurer groups or mercenaries. There are at least a hundred students still in the game. If you put that many up against the Iron Vanguard—no matter how many officers they have, they’ll run out of Skills first. So will Tulm the Mithril. He can only use his active Skills so many times per battle. Like that terrain-changing Skill he used; he won’t be able to use it twice.”

He gestured at the roiling clouds, still engulfing a good portion of the city. They were growing thinner; [Mages] were actively fighting the clouds. But they were slowing the Human’s advance. Marian nodded.

“So Wil’s trying to break the Iron Vanguard’s formation and mount a charge that gets him to the plaza. Failing that, he’ll be trying to out-Skill Tulm with the students. It could work. The issue is whether or not he’s got an answer to all of Tulm’s high-level officers in his party.”

“If he has [Knights], the quality of his [Mages] are presumably—”

Luan glanced from [Strategist] to [Strategist]. Their shock of a minute ago had faded. Now they were casually discussing the unfolding scene as if they were at ease. He raised a hand.

“This is still part of the game?”

All three glanced at him. Umina blushed, and Marian blinked.

“It’s a surprise.”

Luan stared at her. The Centauress didn’t look that surprised. His heart was still racing out of his chest. But they’d already begun talking tactics! Still, his comment reminded them why they were here. Venaz pounded a fist into a palm.

“Damn. I’ve been completely outmatched. Very well. Come on. Let’s go.”

He strode towards the stairs. Marian stared at him.

“What?”

The Minotaur looked up as he checked his armor.

“I’m moving forwards. I came here to participate, not hide! Are you with me or not?”

The Centauress hesitated. She looked at Umina.

“We’re outmatched.”

Umina shot to her feet.

“Yes. But the point isn’t to beat the Iron Vanguard. It’s to get to the plaza. Like it or not, Wil is going to open up a path for everyone if he starts taking ground. Better yet—I think we can use his army to our advantage. Venaz! Head left!”

Venaz was already clattering down the stairs. Luan followed them as he and Marian ran down the wide steps. He still had no idea what was going on, but they did. The Minotaur snorted.

“You want to take us away from the fighting?”

“You want to fight both Humans and Dullahans? Both sides will take us for foes!”

“Hm. Point. Which way, then?”

“Left! We’ll circle around the main advance. We just need to get behind the Iron Vanguard’s lines!”

The Minotaur nodded. He began jogging down the street. Umina waved at Marian. The Centauress held out a hand.

“Need a ride?”

“I’m fine! Let’s go! Follow Venaz! You too, Luan!”

“I have no idea what I’m doing.”

Luan muttered as he ran after the three. A formation of Humans was marching up towards them. Luan heard a shout.

“Uh oh. They’ve spotted us! Go, Venaz!”

“This way.”

The Minotaur turned and pounded down an alleyway; Luan ran after him. Marian galloped past him with ease; Umina panted as she ran just behind Luan. Venaz turned up a street, cursed, and pointed.

“Next alley! There’s fighting all over!”

Luan entered the second street, saw two [Mages] throwing spells at each other, and ran as a splash of some kind of yellow liquid hit the buildings across from him and steamed. He ran down the next alleyway, hearing shouts from behind. And above.

“Look! More students!”

“Which ones are they? Oh! I recognize that Minotaur! And the Lizardgirl! That’s Umina!”

“Hells, they know us. They’re giving us away!”

Marian growled. Venaz reached a second street and pointed up it.

“Not for long. Brace yourself. That fog—”

His voice was muffled. Luan entered the third street, saw the dark grey fog, and hesitated. Umina ran past him.

“Hurry up!”

Cursing, Luan followed her. The street didn’t exactly vanish, but the instant Luan hit the outer edge of the dark, iron-tinted mists, the shouts and sounds around him grew dimmer. The air felt…heavy. His pace slowed. His breathing came a touch heavier.

“Jungle rot. This is a Skill. It’s hard to breathe! Everyone here?”

Marian slowed. Ahead of her, Venaz was looking around slowly. The fog had reduced visibility, sound. Everything was halved for Luan. He could still see the three [Strategists] in front of him, but their voices were quieter. Umina frowned.

“This…is Tulm the Mithril’s terrain Skill. [Battlefield – Cold Iron Mists]. Dead gods. This is the Skill he used when he beat Professor Fleethoof in battle.”

“Selphid’s tits. And he’s using it on us?”

Marian’s face was pale. Venaz shook his head. He took a breath, frowning.

“Damn air. But this works against him as well. Even if his troops are immune to the effects, visibility is still low on both sides. We can sneak through. Come on.”

He led the way down the street at a slower pace. Luan followed, hair standing up on his neck. A Skill had done this? Suddenly his [Lesser Strength] Skill and his other abilities he’d thought were too powerful seemed paltry by comparison. The three [Strategists] moved slowly, heads spinning left and right. Umina breathed in and out, taking huge gulps of air.

“We don’t want to go too far. The Iron Vanguard’s holding the center of the city. We just want to get closer and find another hiding spot. An apartment—”

“Hold up.”

Venaz held up a hand. All four suddenly paused. Venaz frowned. Marian cupped a hand to an ear.

“I thought I heard—”

“Now.”

The shout came from all around them. Suddenly, the mists exploded as a group of Dullahans and three Centaurs raced out of the street. They’d been hugging the walls! Luan spun as nearly twenty rushed the four of them. Marian reared.

“Umina! Get behind me!”

“Oh, Nagas—”

The Lizardgirl grabbed at her belt. Luan hesitated. The [Soldiers] were armed! And he’d forgotten to grab anything like a weapon. But they wouldn’t kill him—

Just break every bone in his body! He dodged back as a Dullahan swung a cudgel at him. Marian grabbed an arrow. It was thick, with a heavy pouch of sand for a tip. She drew and loosed, and the Dullahan charging her cursed as her arrow struck him across the cheek. A heavy blow. But he still came onwards. Marian swung her bow. Luan dodged backwards again, collided with Umina as she ducked a Centaur racing at her. Luan stumbled, and then felt the club strike his arm. He shouted in pain, raised a hand—

Venaz grabbed the Dullahan, tore the club from the armored [Soldier]’s grip, and then hurled the Dullahan through the air, armor and all. The Dullahan crashed into three of his friends, and they all went down. The Minotaur turned, punched the Centaur targeting Umina in the chest, and hit another Dullahan with a thwack that Luan almost felt. The Centaur stumbled and knelt; the Dullahan just fell backwards without a sound.

“You idiots! Grab a weapon and fight!”

Venaz roared at the others. He tossed the club at Luan and whirled. He didn’t bother with a weapon; the Dullahan charging him struck with a wooden sword at Venaz’s stomach. But he hadn’t noticed the Minotaur’s armor. The wooden sword bounced off the metal. The Dullahan swore. Then Venaz grabbed him. The Minotaur head-butted the struggling Dullahan, tossed him to the ground, and kicked.

A female Dullahan with armor flew back six paces, her armor bent around the hoof print in the steel. The Dullahan patrol halted for a second and stared. Eight of the twenty down in seconds! Venaz turned. The Minotaur roared across the street, his voice cutting even through the heavy fog.

“I am Venaz! Foremost student of the Titan himself! Come at me, you pathetic cowards!”

They hesitated. Then they did just that. Luan gripped the club with two hands and swung desperately. He nailed a Dullahan across the shoulder as he appeared out of the mists and tripped up another with a foot. He kicked and swore as the Dullahan stumbled; the Dullahan’s armor was hard! But he knocked the Dullahan down. Before the [Soldier] could get up, Luan hit him across the back of the head. Not as hard as he could have; with his [Lesser Strength] Skill, the Dullahan’s eyes still rolled up, and her head popped out of her armor.

“Umina!”

Marian drew an arrow and loosed it. The blunted, sand-filled pouch struck a Dullahan straight between the eyes. He stumbled and fell forwards. Umina was ducking, dodging as Venaz took on half the patrol by himself. She reached into a pouch and hurled something into the eyes of a Dullahan. He shouted and reached a hand up as he swung blindly. Umina dodged back, and Marian knocked him out with an arrow as well. She whirled—Luan raised his club.

“It’s me!”

“Help Venaz! Go left! I’ll use a Skill! Umina, get behind—”

The two stopped shouting and turned around. They looked around. And then they realized that the fighting had stopped. Venaz straightened as he dropped a pair of [Soldiers] he’d bashed together. The Minotaur grunted, wiped at his armor, and looked around.

“You got yours, then? Good. Grab a weapon if you don’t have one and keep moving! We’re sure to have attracted attention.”

He began trotting down the street. After a second, he noticed he wasn’t being followed and came back with a huge scowl.

“What?”

“You just took out fourteen [Soldiers] by yourself!”

Marian pointed accusingly at Venaz. He looked around, and a mildly smug expression crossed his face.

“Well, they were clearly low-level. I didn’t see the [Sergeant] or [Lieutenant] leading this group. Maybe he was the one I dropped at the start? It would explain why they fell apart so quickly. It just goes to show that you can find trash in any army. Raw recruits; the Mithril should have brought veterans. But he underestimated me.”

He looked around. Marian was still staring. Umina rubbed her head.

“Even so. Are you a [Warrior], Venaz? I’d expect that from Jekilt, but Minotaur or not—!”

She gestured at the bodies. Venaz snorted impatiently.

“Do I look like I wasted levels on a fighting class? No! I have a few levels, but I’m a [Strategist] to the core. Come on. Stop wasting time!”

He set off. Luan staggered after him, and after a beat, the Centaur and Lizardgirl followed. The Minotaur led them through the fogs, grunting and following the buildings on the left side of the street. After a moment, Marian spoke up again.

“Okay, so how did you do that? And don’t tell me it was your armor; you didn’t use a single artifact. Unless you have some kind of potion?”

“What, you mean like a battle pill? Do I look that weak?”

Venaz gave her a scornful glance. Marian opened her mouth, and Umina slid between them.

“Venaz, you know what Marian means. You’re clearly good at fighting. Are all Minotaurs as good as you, or did you learn that somewhere?”

The Minotaur slowed. He looked back with a smile.

“I learned it, of course. And Minotaurs are good. But no one is as good as me. Why do you think I’m here?”

He stomped on. After a second, Marian frowned.

“Here as in Baleros? In the Titan’s class?”

“Obviously. Keep up, Marian. You’re normally quicker than that.”

“You—”

“You’re the best among your kind?”

Venaz turned to look at Luan. The [Rower] was rubbing one arm; he’d used a tiny bit of healing potion, but he wasn’t looking forwards to getting hit again! Still, it beat walking around with a huge bruise for a week.

“That’s right. I won the competition for the honor of learning from the Titan himself. Everyone in the House of Minos under thirty years of age participated. And I was the best, the sharpest, bar none. Or did you think my people would have funded me to learn here if I wasn’t the best at what I did?”

Umina whistled softly.

‘Wow. So you beating those [Soldiers]—”

Venaz waved a gauntleted hand.

“Skill at arms isn’t difficult to come by. Other species mistake Skills and levels for combat prowess. Minotaurs do not. I’ve pitted myself against seasoned warriors many times before. Against a Level 20 foe, I’d have to get serious. Level 30 and it’s difficult, but doable. Even higher-level foes can be taken down in the right circumstances. And to learn from the Professor, I beat a Level 28 [Armored Veteran] in a duel with bared swords. There were hundreds of competitors; everyone wanted to win. I even beat our [Prince] for the honor.”

“Seriously?”

“You have royalty?”

“You still owe me money.”

Everyone paused. Luan shrugged.

“Just adding that. So you’re one of the best, Venaz, friend?”

The Minotaur grinned at the Human man.

“Let’s just say that with this armor on and my bag of holding, I won’t be an easy target, even against the Iron Vanguard. They probably have no idea how strong I am. Marian doesn’t.”

He glanced back at the Centauress, who’d bitten her lip. Umina nodded.

“No wonder you keep arguing with the professor over your ‘lead from the front’ philosophy. You can’t fight in training matches.”

“He forbids it. Well, I’m perfectly content to crush my opponents with my mind. I’ll save my talents for actual combat for when I take to the field. And for this game. Now. Enough gossip. Let’s move out. These mists are hard enough to fight in without walking into another ambush.”

The others fell silent. And now they did follow Venaz with a will, because the Minotaur clearly knew what he was doing. He made less sound with his armor on than Umina and Luan did—let alone Marian with her hooves clopping on the street. The Minotaur was listening as he slid down the street—thanks to that, the students heard the second patrol well before they spotted them.

“Damn fog. I’m blind as a Dropbat out here. That Tulm the Mithril must want to win this all on his own because we’re not going to spot a thing until his Skill ends! How long do you think it’ll take?”

A voice floated up the street: a loudly grousing [Soldier]. It was clearly not one of the Iron Vanguard; as a few shadows appeared, the students and Luan crouched by a stairwell. The patrol walked past them, still talking.

“Forgotten Wing soldiers. Our lot. They’re not keeping to noise discipline!”

Umina hissed at the others. Marian made a face as she drew an arrow.

“Should they? This is probably just as bad for them as us! It sounds like they’re not included as being on Tulm’s side! Makes sense; they’re not his people.”

“This is your Professor’s men, yeah?”

Luan looked at the passing shapes as he whispered at Marian and Umina. They nodded. Venaz growled.

“They’re not on our side. But they don’t enjoy working with the Iron Vanguard. We can use that. Follow me. We’ll sneak around.”

He rose to his feet and stealthily moved up. Luan followed him, then Umina. The aggrieved patrol walked onwards, still talking.

“An hour? Yeah. Sounds about right. So that means an hour of walking around in this crap.”

“At least we’re not fighting the Iron Vanguard. I served with Fleethoof. You know. In the battle.”

“No kidding, [Captain]?”

“I don’t want to talk about it. Let’s just say that the sooner this game’s over and I see the back of that damned Dullahan, the better. He can bite my equine ass if he thinks we’ll help him win. With that said, ten gold pieces is still ten gold pieces. And if we do run across a bunch of arrogant little snots thinking they can sneak past us—”

“Oh shit.”

The soldiers turned. Luan whirled around as he heard galloping hooves. Marian, drawing an arrow, yelped as a Centaur [Captain] charged out of the mists and rammed into her. He had a staff in one hand and whirled it. Marian took a hit across the head and torso as the Centaur whirled.

“There’s four! Surround them and—”

He dodged backwards as Venaz lashed out with a kick. The Centaur blocked with his staff; the wood bowed inwards and splintered with the impact, but the staff held. He swore and backed up.

“They’ve got a good fighter! Get over here!”

Running footsteps. Umina reached for her belt as Luan held his club up. Marian scrambled backwards as Venaz advanced with his arms raised, grinning. The Centauress shouted at Luan and Umina.

“I’ll back that idiot up. You two, run. We’re bait—secure our next spot!”

So saying, she charged a [Soldier] coming out of the mist. Luan looked at Umina. She pointed down the street.

“Follow me!”

The patrol raced after them, but Luan and Umina were already moving and the fog obscured vision and the pounding footsteps were hard to place. They settled for Marian and Venaz. The two whirled, keeping the group back. The [Captain] faced off against Venaz. He whirled his staff; the Minotaur grunted as he blocked a strike aimed at his chest and then his chin in quick succession.

“I’ve got him, Captain!”

Someone shouted from behind Venaz. A Lizardman lunged forwards, swinging a cudgel. He connected solidly with Venaz’s back and heard an unpleasant clang.

“Uh—”

A seven-foot-tall Minotaur wearing full plate armor raised his fist as he turned around. The five-foot-six Lizardman [Soldier] looked at his cudgel. He backed up too slowly. The thump of the Lizardman hitting the ground made the other Forgotten Wing soldiers wince. They backed up as the [Captain] came at Venaz again. The Minotaur was laughing and shouting.



——



“Forwards! For glory and the House of Minos!”

The sound came from behind them as Luan and Umina staggered out of a cloud. The Lizardgirl hissed.

“The mist’s lifted here! That means we either went the wrong way—or someone lifted the fog around here!”

Luan looked around wildly.

“Why would they do that? And where do we go?”

“Anywhere. We just need to secure a route away from that patrol. Hurry! Let’s make sure the street is clear. I have some wards—anyways, the only reason someone would do that is if it was someone against the Iron Vanguard. Or if they needed to cast magic—”

She stopped. Both she and Luan looked around. They saw an empty street. Empty windows, too. And in one apartment, dripping water. Almost as if—

A shape floated out over a balcony. Umina flattened herself in a shadow. and Luan crouched at once. A Dullahan with shining crystal built into her armor was floating through the air at street level, her head floating next to her body, swiveling back and forth. The Lizardgirl hissed at Luan.

“Oh hell, [Mage]! She must have heard the fighting. Hold on—distract her!”

“Me? How?”

The Lizardgirl didn’t answer. She was creeping sideways, risking being spotted to get behind the Dullahan. Luan cursed.

“Just a game. Just a game—twenty gold pieces. Hey you! Down here!”

He jumped out and waved his hands. Instantly, the Dullahan looked down. Before Luan could blink, she dropped out of the sky. Her head was on her shoulders in a moment. She pointed a finger at him. Luan swore and raised the club. She was fast!

“[Water W—]”

The Dullahan ducked as the club spun over her head. She pointed at Luan’s chest.

“[Water Wall].”

Water shot upwards from the ground, engulfing Luan in a second. The [Rower] struggled, arms flailing. He didn’t panic; he’d been in situations like this before. He just had to swim free—Luan’s eyes widened as he realized the water was thick. And it was keeping him in the center! Air was only a foot away, but he couldn’t make his body move as he tried to swim towards it. He saw the Dullahan smile slightly. Then her eyes narrowed. She spun as Umina burst out, shouting.

Choking, submerged in water, he saw the Lizardgirl hurl something at the [Mage]’s face. The Dullahan raised a hand, and a shimmering barrier appeared, but it couldn’t block the cloud of dust. The particles swirled around the shield, and the [Mage] doubled over. Luan flailed desperately, saw Umina run forwards as the [Mage] tried to point at her—

The water surrounding Luan collapsed. He hit the ground as it splashed around him, coughing and gasping for air. He crawled up and saw Umina racing towards him.

“Are you hurt? Sorry, I had to get into place!”

“I’m—”

Luan coughed up some water. He felt her slap him on the back and got up.

“I’m fine. What did you do? How’d you get—”

He looked at the Dullahan. Her head had rolled off her shoulders, and she was unconscious. Umina grinned weakly.

“Just some flour and grit. It gets in the lungs and you hack a lot, but that’s all. [Mages] hate stuff like that, though. They can’t concentrate. Good thing her barrier spell was so poor. Low-level [Mages] usually use shield spells, not full-body protection spells. That’s a mistake, especially against clouds and other tricks like that.”

“How’d you get her to stop the spell?”

“I kicked her in the head. That works too.”

“Oh.”

Luan stared at Umina. Somehow he’d expected something more impressive. The Lizardgirl shrugged.

“Anti-mage tactics on a budget. I learned that getting into fights back at home. There’s always someone who’s got a [Sorcerer] spell, and they can scorch your tail right off if you let them. Don’t worry, she’s just unconscious. Now, help me set up!”

So saying, Umina grabbed what looked like strips of paper and handed a stack to Luan. He stared blankly at them.

“What’s this for?”

“They’re ward talismans. They’ll keep anyone from reaching us if we stick them on the alley entrances. Confusion ward, I think. They’re not mine. Venaz gave them to me.”

Umina held up a piece of paper about as wide as Luan’s hand and a bit longer. He blinked, and then grinned in sudden delight as he recognized them.

“Are those talismans? Ofuda?”

They looked exactly like the Japanese warding charms he’d seen from their culture. The symbology didn’t seem exactly like Kanji, but the concept was the same. Umina looked blank.

“What? Maybe. These are pretty strong! They should work on that patrol, and these are…anti-scrying wards! Venaz really did come prepared! These are Drathian—here, put these up on the alleyway. I need to figure out where we are. Excuse me, this map…”

She indicated the ones Luan should put up. Gingerly, almost reverentially, he stuck the warding papers on the alley they’d come through, four of them. Two made him vaguely nauseous as he stared at the glowing ink, and the other two had some kind of closed eye inscribed amid the magical writing. They weren’t sticky, but somehow, when he placed them, they instantly gripped the stone brickwork as if they’d been glued in place.

“So sugoi.”

For a second, Luan let his inner fan of Japanese culture escape. He wished Ken were here to see this! Then he turned to Umina.

“All done. What next?”

“Call them! Venaz! Marian!”

Umina shouted down into the alleyway, into the mists. Luan took a breath as well and bellowed as loudly as he could.

“This way! Street’s clear!”

For a moment, he only heard the distant sound of fighting and shouts. Then pounding footsteps, growing louder rapidly. Luan stood back just in time; Venaz hurtled through the alleyway, half-carrying Marian. She had a black eye and several discolored bruises on her arms already.

“Marian!”

“She just took a few hits. Move aside.”

Venaz grunted and grabbed a potion from his bag of holding. Unceremoniously, he uncorked it and splashed Marian in the face with it. The Centaur gasped and came back to life. She staggered to her hooves, looking around wildly.

“The patrol—”

“We won free. And you used the talismans. Good work.”

Venaz trotted over to the alleyway. He frowned at the four glowing ward papers and then at Umina and Luan.

“You didn’t need to use four. Two is enough. One for the patrol, one to blank scrying.”

Umina looked embarrassed.

“Sorry. I didn’t know how strong they were. Can you remove them?”

“Too late. They’re activated. These are high-quality. Even a Level 40 [Warrior] would get turned around. Unless that [Captain] has a [Scout]’s Skills or an artifact, we’re safe. It doesn’t matter. I have more.”

Venaz flicked his fingers. Absently, he rubbed at one horn and cursed.

“He wasn’t bad. Those [Soldiers] nearly got us. Why is there no mist here? Have we gone the wrong way?”

Umina pointed silently. Venaz noticed the unconscious Dullahan [Mage] at last.

“Ah. Good work, you two. It seems this Skill affects even the Mithril’s own [Mages]. Good to know…where are we?”

Marian sat down for a second to catch her breath. Umina shook her head as she investigated her map.

“We’ve gone down several streets. I don’t know where we are exactly until we get onto a roof.”

“Better not. They’re watching the roofs.”

“Right. Well, I think we’re a lot closer to the plaza now. We’ll know once we run into the fighting.”

Venaz frowned.

“Yes. I’d like to know how far Wil’s forces have pushed in. We’re moving blind. But we are getting closer. I can feel it.”

“Oh, you can feel it? I can feel a knot on the back of my head.”

Marian scowled at Venaz. He ignored her as he glanced up and down the street. He grabbed another bottle from his bag of holding and tossed it at Marian.

“Enough rest. Stamina potion. Drink a mouthful if you’re tired; it's top-tier, so don’t waste it. Let’s keep moving; those charms only ward the alley behind us, not in front.”

He began striding forwards. Marian got to her feet with a grimace. Luan declined the potion, although Umina took a swig.

“Whoa. It even tastes good. Venaz, exactly what else do you have in that bag of holding besides those charms? They’re from the Drath Archipelago, aren’t they?”

“Of course. The House of Minos trades with the Drathians. They have useful tools. And most other species have a lot fewer counters to them. I have a few other…surprises. But nothing I’d care to use just yet. We are still competitors, Umina. Marian.”

The Minotaur shook his head. Luan eyed his back.

“So let me get this straight. One of your classmates brought in an army. And you brought a bag of holding, some artifacts, and some armor, and you two have some potions, alchemist weapons, and flour.”

He looked at Umina. She blushed.

“Well, if it works…”

Luan groaned.

“I chose the wrong team, didn’t I?”

Venaz turned his head to glare at Luan.

“In the first place, if this were a survival game, or one of the Professor’s games where he demanded we hunt down monsters—I brought weaponry.”

“For a game of hide-and-seek in a city, Venaz? Really?”

The Minotaur snorted.

“It’s not always simply hiding or seeking. Sometimes the Professor changes the rules. If he unleashed Wyverns like he did in the last competition—”

Luan stared at Venaz as the [Strategist] broke off and grumbled under his breath. He looked at Umina.

“What kind of person is your teacher?”

The Lizardgirl smiled.

“He’s great.”

It was such a genuine remark Luan had no reply to that. He looked around. Umina cleared her throat.

“Anyways, it’s not as if the Professor’s the one targeting us. He set this up, but Tulm the Mithril’s our opponent. And he—”

“More soldiers!”

Venaz snapped. Luan, Umina, and Marian stopped. They tensed, ready for another skirmish. But this time the fight had come and gone before them.

A group of Dullahan [Soldiers], Humans, and even a pair of horses were all lying on the ground, being tended to by a small band of Lizardfolk wearing robes. They looked up as the students halted. Instantly, one of their number strode forwards. It was an old Lizardwoman. She raised her hand as Venaz made a fist and lowered his head to charge.

“[Healers]! Back off, or we’ll have you expelled from the game!”

The students and Luan hesitated. Now they saw the [Healers] were bending over the injured, tending to bleeding wounds with healing potion or poultices. They were even treating internal bleeding and broken bones, setting the wounds before applying healing potion or magical salves. The [Healer] who’d stopped the students raised an eyebrow.

“Oh. You’re the poor fools who still haven’t been caught. Do you have any damage we need to clean up?”

“We ran into two patrols a few streets back.”

Venaz jerked a thumb over his shoulder, still looking wary. The [Healer] sighed exasperatedly.

“How bad? And if you’ve hurt them badly—”

“Just bruises. Maybe a concussion or two. Broken ribs at worst. Don’t worry. I held back.”

The Minotaur smirked. The Lizardwoman gave him a look that removed the smirk. She sighed and gestured.

“Roleis, Armiga, you two see what’s wrong over there.”

Two of the [Healers] got up. Marian opened her mouth, hesitating. The old Lizardwoman noticed and smiled.

“Don’t worry; these [Soldiers] aren’t continuing. Titan’s orders. No one gets hurt. Still, if there aren’t a dozen deaths by the end of the day, I’ll be surprised. Horses, people—accidents happen when you have idiots charging each other with sticks, even if they are padded! Some game.”

She scowled angrily. Venaz looked at his companions.

“Who did the fighting here? Kallinad’s forces? From the docks? It looks like they took this street. Why didn’t they hold it?”

The [Healer] sighed.

“It’s all hit and away. It keeps us running, but those Humans aren’t getting any closer, even with their [Knights]. The Iron Vanguard has stalled them, and both groups are clashing in the streets without getting into a big confrontation. That will change soon; I know your lot. Hotheaded, the lot. But why am I telling you?”

She eyed Venaz severely. The Minotaur ignored her; his eyes were narrowed on the street ahead.

“We can use this. So long as we don’t run into too many patrols, we still have a chance.”

“Fat chance of them going after you. Hey, does anyone have a scrying orb? Maybe they’ll show you bashing heads so we know where to find your victims.”

The Lizardwoman [Healer] glared. Luan looked from her to Marian and Umina, who were arguing over the map and their location.

“So there are two companies fighting? Or is it three? I’m not clear on that.”

The [Healer] raised her brows as she turned to Luan. She seemed to figure out he wasn’t a student at once, because she gave Luan a more measured—and polite—reply.

“There are two companies doing the seeking. The [Soldiers] of the Forgotten Wing company, and the Iron Vanguard. We belong to the Forgotten Wing company, and so do these three nominally, at least.”

She gestured at Marian, Umina, and Venaz.

“It makes sense our soldiers aren’t seeking your friends as hard as the Iron Vanguard; they don’t want to get that badly hurt, no matter the prize. Ten gold isn’t worth fighting him.”

She pointed to Venaz, who was pleased at the compliment. Luan focused on the second part of her statement. He’d heard that before.

“Ten gold pieces per student? That’s what the soldiers get for capturing someone?”

He glanced sideways at Marian. The Centauress looked up and tossed her head.

“Don’t get any funny ideas. You’re being paid more to help us, remember? And this is guaranteed money.”

Umina nodded absently. She sidled up to the old [Healer], who seemed content to talk while her coworkers actually did the healing.

“Excuse me, Miss Healer? Could I ask you to show us where we are?”

“What, and help you cheat?”

The old woman exploded. Umina winced. The Lizardwoman hesitated and eyed Umina.

“Well, it couldn’t hurt. What with those Terandrians bringing an army in. You’re Umina, aren’t you? My granddaughter’s your age. Alright, show me. Yes, yes…you’re right about here. And before you ask, no, I don’t know where the fighting is. But if you listen, they’re probably…”

She bent over the map. Venaz edged over to see with Marian. Luan looked at the injured soldiers. All this fighting. It made more sense now. You had to reward everyone taking part, or give them a chance. He frowned to himself.

“A game. If that’s the case, why not…”

An idea nagged at his head. Then he heard a curse. Venaz was looking up and down the street and Umina was folding her map. Marian galloped down the street and came back instantly.

“You were right! There are at least a hundred coming down the street!”

“[Soldiers]? Which side?”

“Does it matter? We’re going to be pounded flat either way! We have to outrun them!”

“But that’s the way we have to go to the plaza! Maybe we can break through. I have—”

Venaz was rummaging in his bag of holding. The [Healer] snapped at once.

“No more fighting! The wounded need to be cleared out! I forbid you to use an artifact!”

“We need to go forwards. We’re running out of time!”

The Minotaur pointed at the sun, which was nearly on its way to becoming evening. The Lizardwoman drew in a breath, and Luan grabbed her arm gently. He looked up the street where the unmistakable sound of marching boots was coming from.

“Excuse me.”

She yanked her arm free of Luan’s grip and glared at him.

“Threaten me, and the Titan will feed you to the worms, no matter who you are. This isn’t up for debate. That goes for you. Prized students or not—”

She rounded on Venaz. Luan raised his voice urgently.

“No. I was just wondering—you’re prohibited from fighting, but would you be willing to earn some gold?”

The [Healer] paused. And the other [Healers] who’d been tending to their tasks looked up. Marian, Venaz, and Umina looked at Luan sharply. The Lizardwoman glanced over her shoulder and then around, as if looking for watchers. Then she eyed Luan.

“I’m listening.”



——



Half a minute later, a huge patrol of the Iron Vanguard came down the street. They were ready for a fight; [Soldiers] armed with shields and heavy clubs were at the front, with archers and padded arrows and [Mages] following behind. They even had two of the Midnight Shields leading their group. They stopped when they saw the wounded on the street. The Lizardwoman strode up to them at once, scowling.

“We’re [Healers]! This lot just got taken out! Keep clear of the injured or I’ll have your head!”

She pointed. The [Commander] leading the battalion hesitated. He eyed the injured Humans, Dullahans, and others alike. It was impossible to tell who had belonged to which side as the wounded groaned or tried to sit up.

You could guess in broad terms, but there had been some Dullahans even among the [Storm Sailors] and Humans were employed in the Iron Vanguard, however infrequently. He frowned at a Minotaur lying still on the ground in full plate armor. He looked unharmed—until you saw the red blood smeared across his neck. He also stank. A Centaur was lying next to him, nursing both arms in a sling while a Lizardgirl moaned as a healing potion was being poured over her. A dark-skinned man was sitting against a wall as a [Healer] held up some fingers.

“We need to get through.”

“Take a side street, then. We can’t move the injured.”

The [Healer] snapped at the Dullahan. He hesitated, then nodded.

“Acceptable. But let us cast one spell. [Geomancer], forward! Seal the street.”

“Hold on. You can’t—”

The [Healer] jumped as, behind her, a wall of stone rose, neatly blocking off the street behind the wounded. The Dullahan [Commander] winced at the ferocity of the old Liazrdwoman’s glare. He removed his head and bowed it slightly.

“Our apologies for the disturbance, Miss Healer. We have our orders.”

The Lizardwoman folded her arms, unimpressed.

“Get to it, then. And don’t interfere with our jobs any more, or you won’t see us when someone splits your head open.”

The Dullahan [Commander] nodded and after checking his helmet to make sure it was secured tightly, ordered his men down a side street. The [Healer] watched him go, and then waited for a minute. After that, she looked at the Minotaur, Lizardgirl, Centauress, and Human, who were all sitting up.

“Well, well, well. It looks like one of you has a brain after all.”

“More than just a brain. Brilliant idea, Luan. I knew hiring you was worth it.”

Marian got to her hooves, looking delighted. Umina was smiling fit to burst and even Venaz looked pleased. The [Healer] who’d been pretending to tend to her cleared his throat meaningfully.

“Speaking of which…”

“Of course. Here.”

Marian counted out some coins. The gold and silver vanished into the [Healer]’s palms, and the Lizardman gave her a delighted bow.

“Much obliged, Miss [Strategist].”

The others crowded around for their share. One of them, however, looked troubled.

“Is this cheating? Our orders were—”

The Lizardwoman shoved past him, with a claw outstretched.

“I don’t see a problem with it. If the Titan had a problem with us, he would have added it to the rules. Do you see a problem?”

She tossed several gold coins at the other [Healer]. He perked up.

“You know, I’m feeling a lot better about it. Gold is a very therapeutic metal.”

“You said it.”

Marian sighed as she handed out the rest of the money. She scowled into her own bag of holding and glanced up.

“I’m spending a fortune today. Venaz, you’re paying me at least half back.”

“You’ll get it. Stop nagging me. If I had my money pouch…”

Venaz stomped past them. He glanced at the Lizardwoman, and his gaze became calculating.

“How much would it cost to escort us towards the plaza? We’ll triple Marian’s payment.”

The Centauress choked, but Umina nodded.

“Not a bad idea. Let’s get as far as we can with this.”

The [Healer] hesitated, but then she shook her head reluctantly.

“Ah! We can’t leave our area. We do have a job, and lives are on the line. You’re on your own after this. Good luck; hope you win. I’d love to see the Iron Vanguard get their tails tweaked.”

She folded her arms. Venaz sighed and cursed, but he didn’t try to argue. The four set off again. Luan hurried after them, and Umina turned to him. She smiled.

“Really good idea, Luan. I wish I’d thought of it.”

“Worth twenty gold coins?”

“At least!”

Marian nodded.

“I’m glad I hired you. I knew my Skill was steering me the right way. If you have any other ideas, we’d love to hear them.”

The two [Strategists] gave Luan approving looks. Venaz grunted.

“Yes, well, recall that I was the first one to hire him.”

“Yes, yes. Now, let’s keep moving. We’re closing in. There’re only a few dozen streets between us and the plaza at most. We can take a circuitous route here to avoid more patrols until we get to the Iron Vanguard’s really fortified streets—”

“Hey!”

All four ducked. Luan grabbed for the club and realized he’d dropped it while pretending to be wounded. He dodged behind Venaz as he looked around for the sound and then up—

Umina, Marian, Venaz, and Luan stared up at an open window. The apartments were filled with faces. And more people were standing on the rooftops! The cold iron mists had begun to dissipate, and the people of Daquin were watching the students with avid expressions. Someone shouted.

“That’s Venaz! And Umina! And, uh—”

“Miss Marian! Who’s the Human?”

Excited voices called from above. Luan saw a Lizardboy waving excitedly at Venaz. Shouts filled the street at once.

“Good luck!”

“We saw you trash that patrol! Excellent punch!”

“Umina! Umina, will you marry m—”

Bemused, the students waved up at the windows. Venaz snorted, looking pleased and annoyed.

“Idiots. They’ll blow our cover.”

“Too late to change it.”

Marian smiled and waved, causing a male Centaur half her age to swoon. Umina looked up and frowned. Then she raised her arms and waved back.

“Then let’s use this. Hey, yourselves! Anyone have a scrying orb? What’s the situation look like? Is Wil—I mean, are the Humans winning?”



——



Umina, Marian, Venaz, and the unfortunate City Runner they’d hired. To some, their tale was all-encompassing, the most important story unfolding in Daquin. It certainly was to the individuals in question. But the truth was that their struggle was just one of hundreds unfolding in the city.

Students running for their lives. Turning, fighting. Outwitting foes left and right. Triumphing, failing—the image of their battle against the Iron Vanguard was a never-ending shift of perspectives. Not one tale was told, nor even fifty. It was all of the most significant dramas, with commentary, replays, twists and turns—

Some might have called it too many perspectives to keep track of. And it was true that some students were captured without much agonizing on the part of the audience. But others were names.

Wil Kallinad. Merrik, the Dwarf. Peki of Pomle. The [Rogue], Sillk. Jekilt and his band of [Soldiers]. And yes, even Venaz. The Minotaur was certainly popular with his people if no one else. But to the disappointment of many, he had only appeared once in the scrying orb as the main focus in a satisfying, if short dustup. Umina’s defeat of the [Hydromancer] had also been caught, incidentally, as had their trick with the [Healers].

In truth, their perspective was, as of this moment, rather inconsequential compared to the other students who’d been making waves. Niers had watched as, with audible groans, the people in the plaza witnessed Jekilt finally subdued by a vanguard led by Tulm himself. The Mithril cornered the Centaur [Captain] with calm detachments of soldiers, slowly boxing the Centaur in until Jekilt was taken out from afar with a spell. But if Jekilt’s defeat was the talk of the hour, Wil’s dramatic battle with the Iron Vanguard was the hottest thing this century.

And it was only getting hotter. Niers watched as the patrol that had missed Venaz and the others walked straight into an ambush by nearly two hundred [Soldiers]. The Dullahans put their backs up as well as their shields as enchanted arrows rained from the rooftops and [Foot Soldiers] rushed in from all sides. But the ambush was a feint; the Dullahans in fact outnumbered their attackers, and they were meant to be held in place as Wil’s forces tried to seize a choke point five streets over.

They succeeded, but not before Xol had waded into the ambush and taken out two dozen [Soldiers] himself. Both sides drew back as Wil’s Human army advanced and the Iron Vanguard regrouped for another push outwards. Across the city, the students still fighting towards the plaza clashed with the Iron Vanguard and Forgotten Wing [Soldiers]. This was the stalemate that had occupied the city for the last two hours.

Bloody melees, feints, ambushes—the Iron Vanguard were giving ground as the students and the Kallinad forces advanced. But both sides were being ground down, and the numbers lay with Tulm. And the students had yet to penetrate the inner third of the city around the plaza. So were they really winning?

No. They were not. To the excitable Noass and Sir Relz, each gained street was a cause for triumph and damn impartiality. But to Niers, it looked like Tulm had held his ground splendidly against Wil’s advance. He had given ground, yes, but he was whittling down the Humans. And he had the numbers to win a purely defensive battle around the plaza, even fighting from all sides.

“Still. They have a chance. If they manage to link up with Merrik’s group. Or if they can just take out Xol, or Tulm himself—”

Perorn clenched a fist as she watched through the scrying orb. Two seconds later her face appeared in the orb, repeating herself word for word. The Centaur turned and scowled at Teura in real time. She trotted back from the half-Elf [Mage] and towards Niers, who was watching from his pedestal in the center of his circle. He was still surrounded by the Midnight Shields. The Dullahans didn’t budge, even for Perorn.

“Move. Please.”

They stared at the Centaur. Niers sighed.

“Perorn, if you want to discuss with me, I’m afraid I’ll have to come to you. One moment.”

He got up from his pedestal, touched a ring, and leapt twelve feet through the air and onto the head of a Dullahan in black armor. The Dullahan twitched as Niers strode up his helmet to talk down to Perorn.

“Yes?”

“What do you think?”

The [Galewinds Strategist] folded her arms. Niers raised an eyebrow.

“I think you’re biased.”

“Of course I am. Or are you telling me you’d prefer that b—prefer Tulm to win?”

Niers shrugged. He was aware of Teura edging closer for a better view, probably amplifying his words at a distance.

“I’ve merely set the stage. The winner is the most deserving. Of course, I’m watching my students’ contributions. All of them.”

He looked pointedly past Perorn. She turned, and Teura’s head snapped around. There came Tulm. He was escorting Jekilt into the plaza. The defeated Centaur was visibly upset; he still had scorch marks from the flame walls that had boxed him in. Tulm strode over to his war table, ignoring the [Mages] clustered around him asking for a comment. Niers rolled his eyes.

“Look at this. Will we have Wistram’s [Mages] on every battlefield after this, I wonder?”

“Only the important ones. And once we put an arrow or two through them ‘accidentally’, I think they’ll stop hanging around.”

Perorn pawed the ground restlessly. Niers shook his head.

“But they might well be everywhere. If—ah. Hold on.”

He broke off and leapt back to his pedestal. Something was happening. Tulm’s head snapped up as a shout went up.

The streets were mostly clear of individual students at this point. A few groups, like Venaz’s, had managed to get by with few or no helpers like Luan. But by and large, any student who hadn’t had the foresight to team up or hire help was now caught. And the streets were so inundated with soldiers that hiding near the plaza was all but impossible.

Ironically, if you were hiding at a distance, you were probably safe. No one cared about the students who’d decided to wait it out. But around the plaza, the Iron Vanguard was patrolling in so many numbers and in such force that anyone would be caught in moments.

Indeed, a score of students using [Invisibility], illusion, and even [Polymorph] spells and items had been caught by the [Mages] watching for any kinds of magical movement. Over the roofs or on the ground, their nets were stretched so finely that even a Fraerling would probably be caught in seconds if they got too close.

Which was why the group that appeared with a covered wagon down the main street leading straight into the plaza was all the more notable. They rolled the wagon, pulled by four horses, forwards. Lizardfolk with swords ushered the wagon forwards, fending off the Dullahans that poured towards them. The horses raced ahead, urged onwards by the driver at the front. Faster and faster—and then the horses ran to either side, reins cut!

“What?”

An exclamation came from the watchers in the plaza. Niers just adjusted his wooden pedestal until he could see over the heads of the Midnight Shields. He stared down into the scrying orb as Tulm raised his voice.

“Report.”

“Sir, intruders on the eastern main road. All have been apprehended, but the vehicle is still moving. The horses are gone, but it’s been driven. It’s a…wagon?”

It was indeed a wagon. Just a wagon. Hurtling down the slight incline of the eastern road, picking up momentum. A wagon. And clambering up over the driver’s seat, throwing her hood back to expose her face, was Yerranola, the Selphid.

The plaza was guarded, of course. Over a thousand feet away, a rank of Dullahans three rows deep was waiting and braced. Wil’s soldiers hadn’t even gotten near them yet. And if they had, the elites of the Iron Vanguard would stop even their Knights of the Autumn cold. Definitely. What would a wagon do?

Then again…the Dullahans standing in formation stared. It was a wagon. Just a wagon. But it was…

A wagon.

The wagon was loaded to build momentum, and somehow, Yerranola had managed to convince a [Carpenter] to reinforce the front with wood, turning it into a mobile battering ram. Without horses, it was now speeding towards the plaza’s eastern entrance.

“Out of the way if you don’t want to get hurt!”

The Selphid was crouched on top of the wagon, laughing maniacally as it hurtled towards the ranks of Dullahans. A few [Mages] hurled spells at her, but without using a [Fireball] or a wall spell, they couldn’t stop her. And that might well kill the Selphid, dead body or not. Should they use a spell? Could they remove her somehow?

The [Mages] hesitated, and by that point it was too late. The wagon was going faster and faster. How fast was it going now? Forty miles per hour? Fifty? Sixty? And in that moment, all the Dullahans guarding the plaza did a quick mathematical equation. If you understood force is mass multiplied by acceleration…even if you didn’t know the exact math, even if the basic concept was something every sentient being understood…

How much did wagons weigh again?

Over two thousand pounds of wood hurtled across the ground at the Dullahans. They hesitated; they were braced in a shield wall, but they could figure out what would happen if that hit them. The front of the wagon had been shaped into a ram. And painted red. The [Captain] took one look and issued a desperate order.

“Dodge! Everyone out of the way, now!”

The wagon hurtled forwards. The Dullahans were moving, running, diving out of the way. In the plaza, Tulm looked up. He stared at the wagon coming in from his right.

“Oh dear. And just what will Tulm the Mithril do about th—”

Noass’ voice cut off as Tulm straightened. Yerranola screamed a war cry as she aimed straight for the center of the plaza. For Niers.

“Professor!”

Niers smiled and waved. He jumped down from his pedestal as Wistram’s [Mages] crowded around him and the Midnight Shield for a better look, shouting questions. Perorn was nowhere to be seen.

“Lord Astoragon! Are you worried about this?”

Niers was counting. Twenty seconds? Twenty-five? He looked over casually as the wagon grew larger and larger in front of him.

“Me? Why should I be?”

“It’s a wagon, Lord Astoragon. Surely even the Titan—”

The Centaur [Mage] hesitated. Niers was standing on the ground. The Fraerling looked up at the Centaur cheerfully.

“Unless Yerranola has truly atrocious aim, I think I’ll be quite fine, don’t you? The wagon should pass comfortably overhead. Even if I stretch. You all may wish to move.”

The Wistram [Mages] looked up. They stared at the wagon, which was hurtling at them. It would pass far, far above Niers. But they would be paste.

“Barrier spell.”

Teura murmured somewhat urgently. Niers raised a hand.

“No barrier spells! If you interfere, I’ll have all of you tied to rocks and hurled into the harbor!”

He glared at the [Mages]. They hesitated. Then they stared at the Midnight Shields. They hadn’t moved. The group from Wistram looked at Tulm. He was watching the wagon as well. He wouldn’t let it hit them.

They stared at the wagon, which had somehow endeavored to pick up more speed. And at Niers. At Tulm. They were pretty sure. Pretty sure, but then again, he didn’t have anything to lose. The wagon was ten seconds away. The [Mages] ran for it.

“[Lesser Teleport].”

“[Flash Ste—]”

The sight of the robed [Mages] diving for their lives was ironically captured by a watcher from above. And the wagon was still coming on. Niers stood still, staring through a gap in the Dullahans. Yerranola was laughing, pointing at him. He sighed.

“Ah, I think I see. Well—”

There was only one barrier left between the Selphid and her destination: the Midnight Shields. And at last they did move. The black-armored Dullahans marched forwards, forming a line of steel.

“Strategist?”

One of them spoke beneath her black helm. Tulm raised a calm hand.

“I leave it to you.”

“Yes, sir! [Lineholder Formation].”

The Dullahans braced. They didn’t draw their weapons. They didn’t raise their shields. They just stood their ground. And suddenly, they were a wall of black metal. Yerranola’s eyes widened. The Selphid took one look at the stationary Dullahans as her wagon screamed towards them. The circle.

“Uh oh—”

The crash was one of the most epic collisions captured on scrying orb. It was the kind of thing you watched once, twice, and then a third time just to remember. The reinforced wagon splintered. The contents of the wagon, weights, nails, all of it, exploded like, like…like a [Fireball] made of wood against the Dullahans. They were the immovable object, though. And the wagon smashed itself to bits against them.

Naturally, the Selphid went flying. She hit the ground, and three Dullahans were on her in a second. Everyone else in the plaza, [Mages], to captured students, to other Dullahans and teachers alike, ducked as a hail of wood landed around them. Perorn, who’d wisely taken cover, watched as the wood fell down, temporarily a weather phenomenon.

Niers watched as the wooden splinters rained around him, blocks of wood twice as large as he was landing next to the Fraerling. He raised his eyebrows as a dagger of wood spun towards his face. At the last second it bounced off something. The Fraerling glanced down. A ring flashed on his finger. He sighed as he kicked the bit of wood out of the way.

“I’ll grant you it got you into the plaza, but against the Midnight Guard? Not exactly a smart move, Yerranola.”

He looked around for the Selphid. She was squirming as the Dullahans held her. Yerranola’s back was broken, and she was peppered with pieces of wood; one stood out from her chest where it was embedded three inches deep. Still, the Selphid grinned with her classic, irrepressible good nature.

“Whoop! Looks like that failed! See you, Professor! I—oh, hells!”

She gasped as one of the Midnight Shields slammed her onto the ground. The Selphid blinked up at them.

“Ow. I felt that.”

“Student apprehended. Strategist, your orders?”

“With the others.”

Tulm waved a hand. He’d barely glanced up from his map where he was plotting Wil’s forces. Yerranola groaned. Niers sighed. Then everyone turned as one of the spectators, one of Daquin’s Councilmen, raised his voice.

“Reckless! Absolutely—someone get a healing potion! This [Soldier]’s injured badly!”

The Lizardman was pointing and shouting. And little wonder. A Dullahan was lying on the ground. His armor was steel, but that hadn’t saved him; wooden pieces had perforated the metal like it was parchment. And blood was already spreading from his wounds as he tried to pull himself up.

“Healer!”

The cry came from a dozen throats as [Soldiers] from the Iron Vanguard rushed to tend to their fallen comrade. The moment was a tableau, captured once again by Wistram. A healing potion was produced and used at once. The Dullahan got to his feet, cradling his visored helmet as his body was helped upright. For a second, everyone was focused on the injured Dullahan.

“Heal the wounded. Reform the guard on the eastern entrance at once. As for the Selphid—place her with the other students. Now.”

Tulm was glancing towards Yerranola, his expression irritated. He spoke curtly. Yerranola’s face was a mask of horror.

“I’m really sorry, Professor. I didn’t think—is he alright?”

She strained to see as the Midnight Shields led her towards the other captured students. She called out again towards Niers. The Fraerling didn’t answer. He was staring at the scrying orb and the wounded Dullahan as the [Healer] rushed over to him. The [Soldier] was trying to get to his feet.

“I can walk. I can…I’ll go.”

He stumbled forwards, shrugging off help. The other Iron Vanguard Dullahans hovered around him, then composed themselves. True to Dullahans, they let the [Soldier] slowly proceed towards a [Healer] rushing towards him, passing slowly by the center circle.

It was a moment where no one was holding their breath. No one except Niers. And perhaps Tulm sensed it with a Skill. Or maybe it was intuition. But as the [Soldier] stumbled again, the Dullahan [Strategist] glanced up. His expression was absent for a second, puzzled. And then, suddenly, intent. He pointed at the injured Dullahan and shouted in a field roar.

“Hold! That Dullahan’s armor isn’t bearing the Iron Vanguard’s insignia! Soldiers—”

Too late. Cameral began sprinting for Niers’ circle. The Iron Vanguard jerked as one. The Midnight Guard whirled. They charged Cameral. And they were quick! The Dullahan tried to swerve, but he was too slow. He knocked a hand free, charging at the circle with Niers in it. But he’d never make it. So—

He threw his head.

It was an easy toss. A lazy arc, belayed by the suddenness with which his body came to a halt as six Dullahans tackled Cameral at once. But they’d missed the head. And it flew.

Up, up! The Midnight Shields not tackling Cameral looked up. Several tried to change course, but their heavy armor weighed them down. It was too late. The world watched, open-mouthed, as Cameral’s head fell down to earth, towards Niers, who’d stepped aside to give him room. He was going to make it! He was going to—

Tulm the Mithril leapt forwards. His jump carried him eight feet into the air, impossibly high. His mithril armor shone as his outstretched arm shot for Cameral’s head. Niers, staring upwards, saw the moment unfold.

Tulm, his eyes wide, hand outstretched. Cameral, shouting, his head slowly rotating as it dropped towards Niers. The Midnight Guard, lunging. Tulm’s hand, covered in the bright, magical metal, reaching, grabbing—

He caught Cameral and twisted out of the way, landing with a crash as the Midnight Guard leapt too. The Mithril rolled, grasping Cameral’s head by the hair. The Dullahan student was grimacing as his body lay, pinned by four of the Midnight Guard. Tulm held Cameral’s head upright as he scrambled to his feet. He paused, wavering.

The Midnight Guard froze. The audience in the square froze. And every eye turned towards Niers Astoragon. They all stared, students, teachers, spectators.

Had Cameral done it? Had his head passed into the circle, or had Tulm caught him in time? The world waited. And Niers studied the circle marked by ropes. He checked the air where Cameral’s head had been, glanced at the two Dullahans, Tulm and Cameral’s head.

The Fraerling raised his arms. He waited for one eternal heartbeat, for the effect, for the drama, and then swung them down.

“Out!”

And the audience went wild.



——



Minutes later, a lifetime of excitement later, Yerranola and Cameral were being spoken to by Wistram [Mages] as they sat with the other former contestants. The [Mages] were, of course, lenses for the world to witness all that was unfolding, and they did more than just watch the action in the streets.

They were interviewing the losers for their thoughts, opinions, and, of course, reactions to what was happening. And now the latest two students were the subject of all the attention, despite the battle still raging in the streets.

“Of course it was planned. You think we stuck a bunch of wooden bits in Cameral’s armor and drew some blood to fake his accidents for fun? Come to think of it…”

Yerranola was chatting happily to the [Mage] asking her questions. She looked relaxed, for all her body was in tatters. Cameral was uninjured. His staged injuries had already been healed, for they had been quite real. But he had never been in any danger not planned. He was more subdued, but he did manage a quiet nod and a reply.

“Neither Yerra nor I had made enough preparations for this event. After we saw the Mithril and the Iron Vanguard arriving—we might have continued, but Wil’s strategy showed us just how unlikely we were to succeed. So we teamed up.”

“And this was your plan?”

The scrying orb the [Mage] was holding up switched to Sir Relz. The Drake was leaning forwards, interviewing the two [Strategists]. Yerra nodded casually.

“It was worth a shot. I was the bait, and Cameral was just going to run for it. I know it’s not that impressive, but we decided to be bold since we had no other good hands to play. I hope the Professor won’t scold us for it.”

She glanced at Niers. After a moment, the sighing Fraerling appeared in the orb.

“Boldness is a virtue. I won’t say either Yerranola or Cameral exceeded my expectations, but they certainly came closer than any other student. Yerra was the first to break the plaza’s encirclement, unorthodox and risky though her plan was. How close it was depends. A head isn’t exactly a body; I would have had to think, if Cameral had landed, on whether that counted. But perhaps Tulm has an opinion on how good the gambit was?”

He winked at the audience. The screen switched to Tulm. The Dullahan, who had returned to his war table, glanced up briefly.

“Remove the [Mages]—”

The image went dark for a second. Niers, relaxing in his seat, saw Tulm walk away from the protesting Wistram [Mages]. Niers whistled, and Tulm stopped as he passed by the circle guarded by a double ring of somewhat-abashed Midnight Shields this time. Niers hopped onto another helmet and spoke quietly to Tulm.

“He nearly got you. Cameral. If you’d been a hair slower, he might have won. You didn’t think they’d be this aggressive, did you? You’re still underestimating them.”

He grinned as he perched on a very uncomfortable Dullahan’s head. Tulm glanced at the Midnight Shield, and then up at Niers. He adjusted his head. His voice was as impassive as ever.

“Tell me something. Was that Human boy—Wil Kallinad—really the surprise you mentioned? He will never make it in the plaza. You know he has no chance.”

Niers smiled. The two locked gazes. At last, the Titan shrugged.

“Alone, you’d be right. But teamwork nearly won once already. I wonder what happens if the other students work together?”

He turned back to his pedestal. Tulm stared at Niers’ back as the Titan helped himself to another lime drink and a candied nut. Then he looked around. His soldiers stared back. Slowly, Tulm glanced at his [Mage] responsible for sending [Message] spells.

“Command Xol to advance. Have the first to sixth Armor Captains begin sortieing with their units. It’s time to end this.”



——



“The plaza is in sight! Just six more streets away!”

Merrik roared as his group advanced. The Iron Vanguard was pouring out to meet them. But an equally large force was marching with Merrik and his group.

Wil’s forces were advancing down the street. It had not been an easy battle. The [Knights] were tired. More than a few had been unhorsed. More than a few had been carried off the streets. And yet, still they came.

Humans. Terandria’s champions. And behind them was Wil, still moving forwards, still clashing with Tulm the Mithril himself. It was enough to make Merrik proud of his homeland. Even so, he was going to win this. The Dwarf hefted his greatclub as he walked forwards. Some of his friends walked with him.

Not all.

Kelsa was out. She’d been taken by nets. Romin was limping bad; a bone had been broken. Maybe even shattered. But he was still with them. He could heal later.

Cemiza was out. The Oldblood Drake had been caught by a [Mage]. But her friend, Kaelma, the [Fencer] with the silver bell, was still with them. Unharmed. So was Peki, the Garuda [Martial Artist].

And Merrik too. Oh, he’d taken bad hits, but nothing a healing potion couldn’t sort out. Now the Dwarf raised his club and roared, and the soldiers around him cheered. He was out of Skills. But he was so close!

“Hold on, Professor. We’re nearly there!”

Merrik charged forwards. The Dullahans charged right back. There were a lot of them. But they could take them! They could—the Dwarf knocked three Dullahans down, aiming at their knees, then heard a voice that made his heart sink.

“Second Armor Company! Advance!”

A titanic roar worthy of the Professor himself. But this voice was properly huge, booming. It came from a giant.

“Aw, Dragon’s nuts! Here comes Xol! Peki!”

The Garuda flew up. Xol was impossible to miss. He was leading the Second Armor Company straight into the fray. [Knights] charged at him, using their spears like lances; the War Walker flicked them off their horses. He wasn’t holding a weapon. But he did have a massive tower shield. Peki dove at him.

“Rematch. Flutter kick. Swallow punch. Dodge—”

She flitted through the air, striking. Another Garuda went down, knocked clean out of the skies. Merrik grinned.

“Go Peki!”

Xol had halted as the Garuda advanced on him. He raised his shield as the Garuda spun left, daring him to strike and be countered. Xol’s voice was huge, yet almost conversational.

“You were right. Without my weapons, it is hard to beat one of Pomle’s warriors. I would that we had a chance for a rematch.”

“Punch, punch, kick—”

“[Attraction Shield].”

Merrik felt a tug at his side. He stumbled. Then he saw Peki fall out of the air like a stone. Xol held his massive shield up, and the Garuda slammed into it and stuck there. Pinned. She wriggled, struggling against the shield, but it held her as if the Garuda’s body were suddenly magnetized. Peki looked up as Xol raised his shield.

“This is bad.”

Xol brought the shield down. Merrik charged forwards, but it was much too late. The people below Xol scattered as the shield came down, Peki-first.

Whumph.

When the [Juggernaut] raised his shield, Peki remained, lying on the broken street, her wings spread. Unconscious.

“Peki!”

Her friends raced forwards, outraged. Heedless, they charged at Xol. Romin, Kaelma, Merrik—but a group of Dullahans brought down Romin, trapping him with catchpoles. And someone shot out from the side—Kaelma stumbled backwards, her cheek suddenly bleeding! The Gnoll turned, growling, raising her wooden rapier.

A Dullahan stepped out of the line of soldiers. He was unique, because his armor was made not of metal, or even wood or stone. But of cloth. It looked like padded armor as he gestured to Kaelma. His voice was soft, even amid the fighting.

“Second Armor Captain. Heldam. I challenge you, [Fencer].”

He had a wooden rapier like hers. And on his wrist—a silver bell. Kaelma hesitated. Then the Gnoll slowly walked towards Heldam, as graceful as a cat. He slid forwards to meet her. The silver bells chimed as they advanced.

Merrik looked around. Suddenly, he was alone. And the soldiers with him were struggling, suddenly bereft of leadership. He raised his voice.

“Pull back! Pull—”

A hand grabbed him. Merrik felt himself being raised into the air. He swore and struggled, but Xol’s grip was immense. The [Juggernaut] raised Merrik up and regarded him. Merrik stared at Xol and bared his teeth desperately.

“Ever hear about the Dwarf who felled a Giant?”

He wrenched an arm free. His club was still there. He swung desperately, and his greatclub bounced off Xol’s hand. The [Juggernaut] smiled faintly.

“Yes. I heard he cheated.”

Then he lowered his hand, and Merrik found out what it was like to be Peki.



——



“Ah, no! He got the Dwarf!”

Umina groaned as she stared into the scrying orb. She, Venaz, Marian, and Luan were all hiding. For a second time. The Minotaur’s protective talismans were affixed to every window and door in the apartment they were hiding in. The Lizardfolk couple who’d let them in didn’t mind; they were as excited as could be as they clustered around the scrying orb.

“Dead gods, look! The entire team’s wiped out! Wil’s forces are on the run!”

Dismayed, Marian pointed. Umina saw it was true. The Iron Vanguard had finally come out swinging with all they had. And they’d taken the students and Humans completely off-guard. Umina groaned as Xol casually unhorsed a Knight of the Autumn with a single blow.

“It’s really unfair using that [Juggernaut]! Short of lethal weapons, how are you supposed to take him out?”

“Immobilize him? Magical spells?”

“None of that works with his reinforcements.”

Venaz snorted.

“That’s the point. If he were easy to deal with, he wouldn’t be the Mithril’s best warrior on the field. Even so, look how far Wil’s company has come.”

He pointed to the map he was studying. Umina checked it too. Wil was as many as five streets away from the plaza in certain sections. And Umina’s group? Eight streets. Venaz clenched a fist.

“We have a chance. We just need a way to get past the majority of the Iron Vanguard and the Professor’s soldiers. If we had a clear shot at the Professor, there’s just the Midnight Shields in the way.”

“Elite soldiers. But they can’t do more than break our bones. It’s definitely possible to get into that circle. I have some items.”

Marian checked her bag of holding. Venaz nodded.

“But we have to get through all of the Iron Vanguard’s main army. And Wil hasn’t the strength to push in. Not anymore! He needs help. By my count he’s used up all his Skills. And something must be done about Xol. None of us can take him out.”

“You surprise me, Venaz. I thought you’d be raring to challenge him yourself.”

Venaz shot Marian a slow look.

“I’m not an idiot. Xol of Ingrilt is more than a match for all of us.”

Luan shifted. He’d been quiet since he’d helped them use the [Healers]. Umina thought the City Runner had still been processing the game, having not quite ever gotten the full story. Now he glanced at Xol, who was front and center in the scrying orb as he waded through the Humans.

“Xol, huh? He’s the largest [Juggernaut] I’ve seen so far. Is he special or something?”

The other students glanced at him. Umina raised her brows as her tail swished back and forth. More and more surprises! Marian’s instincts had been spot on. She nodded carefully.

“You’ve seen [Juggernauts] before? Sorry, I mean, War Walkers? They’re really rare.”

“It was the only battle I’ve ever taken part in. I saw them fight. I won’t forget that. This Xol is a gentle soul by comparison. Hey, is this scrying orb’s image something I can watch later? If my company could see this—”

Luan replied absently. He was holding something in one pocket. But he hadn’t taken it out. Marian nodded.

“War Walkers are notoriously good at…killing. They’re big targets too, though. As bad as using Giants in battle. Still, in a situation like this, they shine. And Xol is bigger because he’s one of the oldest and strongest War Walkers alive. He could beat any [Knight] that Wil brought with him. Probably.”

“Without their enchanted weaponry? Definitely. We have to evade him. Strike while he’s distracted. It might be time for a gamble. Force our way in. I can hold off…some of the enemy.”

Venaz checked his talismans again. Umina was still focused on Luan.

“You have a company? That’s unusual for a City Runner.”

Luan glanced up.

“Yeah. I’m part of a company. The United Nations company. We’re based in Talenqual.”

Umina looked excited.

“Talenqual? I’ve been to—”

Venaz snorted as he reached into his bag of holding.

“How many nations are part of your company? Don’t answer; it’s a terrible name for a company. You should change it.”

Luan glared at Venaz.

“Venaz is a terrible name for a Minotaur. You should change it.”

Venaz’s brows snapped together. Marian looked delighted, but then she intervened, for once the peace mediator.

“Argue over names later. It’s time to make a decision. Wil’s forming up. He’s going for the decisive blow as well.”

It was true. Across the city, Wil’s force was drawing in, abandoning their fortified streets. Umina whistled.

“He’s even abandoning his rear. He’s going all in.”

“Smart. It’s the only way he wins. One push takes all. But Xol and Tulm—he won’t make it alone.”

Venaz stared at the image in the scrying orb. Then he looked up.

“I’m going. This is our chance. Umina. Marian. Do you concur?”

The two looked at each other.

“We concur. Let’s do it. I still don’t have a plan, though.”

Luan hesitated. Umina noticed that. She turned to him.

“Do you, Luan?”

“Something like that. You’ve all said this is a game, yeah?”

“Of course. Have you ever seen a battle this bloodless?”

Venaz lifted an eyebrow. Luan ignored him. He glanced down at the map, then at his coin purse.

“Well then. You bought me. And you bought out the [Healers].”

He nodded at Marian. She nodded slowly. Umina felt her brain fizzling. She raced ahead of Luan’s words. He didn’t mean—

“Ten gold’s what’s motivating the soldiers of your company to fight, right? So why not—”

“Why not bribe them to help us!”

Umina sat bolt upright. Luan nodded. Marian started.

“Bribe them? It’d never work. [Soldiers] are loyal, especially to a Great Company. The idea of bribing any of them to follow us—”

“In a battle. Obviously not. That would be suicide for them and us. But this isn’t a battle, is it, Marian?”

Venaz looked up quietly. Marian hesitated. Then she grabbed her coin pouch.

“Luan, can I borrow—one, two, damn, I brought a lot, but—”

“If I had my coin pouch—”

“Shut it, Venaz.”

Umina glanced up as the Minotaur and Centauress began counting and calculating. She met Luan’s eyes. The Human man had a slight smile on his face. A pleased expression. Umina felt a flash of admiration. And then curiosity.

“You have a unique way of thinking. That’s twice now you surprised us.”

“I’m sure you’d have come up with something. You’re all taking this more seriously than I am, besides.”

That was true. Umina was sweating with nerves. She needed to use the toilet before she went. She hopped from one foot to another.

“Still, have you ever been a [Strategist]? Or thought of being one? Do you play chess?”

An odd expression crossed Luan’s face.

“Me? No. Never. But I do know chess. Do you think this will help you win?”

Umina hesitated. She looked at Venaz and Marian, alight with the idea. Then she shook her head.

“…No. Assuming Marian has five hundred gold pieces, which she doesn’t, how many could we hire? Two hundred? One hundred? No. This will help, but it’ll be luck and something else if we beat Tulm. And that’s not how a battle should go. The Professor doesn’t believe in luck.”

Luan nodded. His eyes flicked to Umina.

“In that case, maybe you should change plans.”

“No. I mean, no, your idea’s great. It’s just…there’s something more to it.”

Umina spoke slowly. Luan’s plan was making her own brain buzz. She had a thought, nibbling at the corner of her mind. She pursued it as she thought.

“A truly great plan is something no one expects. Something original. But a great idea is only the first step. A [Strategist] builds on that idea. They take the unexpected and turn it into something no one is prepared for. Like…hold on. I need to go to the bathroom.”

The Lizardgirl hurried out of the room. She couldn’t hold it anymore. And as she was sitting on the toilet, she had it. She raced back into the room. She didn’t even wash her claws.

“Luan. I have an idea. Will you listen?”

She told him the idea, whispering to him in a corner. The City Runner’s face lit up, and he grinned.

“That is smart. But would your Tulm the Mithril expect it?”

“Maybe. Maybe not. But if it works, it’s sure to work. And this might be something even his [Mages] miss. It’s so…basic. And it would be quick. So quick—but—”

Umina hesitated. She looked at Marian. Could she do that to her friend? Tell her to risk it all on this? No. Marian would hate gambling it all on this. But Umina had nothing to lose. She looked at Luan.

“I’m going to try it. Can I…can I ask you to let them know?”

“Of course.”

Luan stared at the Lizardgirl. Umina hesitated.

“Maybe I should tell Marian…”

Her conscience gnawed at her. Gnawed and pricked. If she was wrong—but if she was right—Luan stared at her. Slowly, the [Rower] bent. He spoke quietly.

“Do you want to win?”

Umina paused. She looked up at him.

“Yes.”

With all her heart. The Human studied her eyes. Then he nodded.

“Then win. There’s honor in sports. But this sport is all about cheating. Or so it seems. So win. And have all your regrets afterwards. But win.”

And in his eyes flashed the same thirst for victory that boiled in Umina’s gut. The Lizardgirl took a step back. Then she nodded and fled. Back the way she’d come.

“Umina?”

Marian looked around as she finished counting her coin. The Centauress trotted around the apartment, searching for her friend. She turned to Luan.

“Where did Umina go? Did you see?”

The City Runner nodded.

“She had an idea and went to try it. She’s trying to win. In her way.”

He met Marian’s gaze. The Centauress was hurt. Then angry. She pawed the ground.

“Aren’t we all? Why can’t she—never mind. Come with us.”

She gestured to Venaz. The Minotaur was straightening, checking his armor. He turned.

“Forget Umina. Victory belongs to us. We’re going. And you’re coming with us.”

He nodded at Luan. The Human smiled.

“Of course.”



——



They came out of the apartment. Three of them, and at least two were ready for a fight. Marian’s bow was drawn. Venaz strode forth wearing his armor. Luan had a table leg.

Why was he there? Moral support. To make up for Umina’s absence. A good luck charm.

“An extra body to take a block for my back.”

“You’re all heart.”

“You’re being paid. And soon, so will the other soldiers. Let’s find a patrol.”

“Can’t we just head straight towards the plaza?”

Marian looked at Venaz. The Minotaur shook his head.

“Too many of the Iron Vanguard. And what if we run into a larger group of the Forgotten Wing company?”

“Oh. Right. We can’t bribe them all.”

“Exactly. We should—”

Venaz broke off. He turned his head, held up a hand. Luan and Marian froze. The Minotaur paused.

“There’s a large force coming up the north. Riders.”

“Wil’s group?”

“They might take us out. The other way, then. Towards the plaza—”

The three began hurrying down the street. They hadn’t gone more than twenty paces when Venaz halted again. He hesitated. This time Luan and Marian had heard it too.

“That’s a lot of footsteps.”

“Back to the apartment!”

They raced backwards. Too slow. Too late. The first [Mage] appeared on the rooftops. Five more appeared and began throwing spells down at the trio. The first raised her hands and shouted.

“Wistram, Wistram!”

The other five stopped. On the far end of the street, a group of Dullahans floated over the rooftops. They saw the three Human [Mages] and two half-Elves and began throwing spells at once. The Wistram [Mage] fled, shouting. Venaz groaned.

“They’ve spotted us. The apartment’s no good! Form up!”

He put his back to the wall. Marian did likewise. And there they came.

An entire army of Humans. A regiment and more of Dullahans. And Luan, Marian, and Venaz were caught right between them. Both sides spotted the students and Luan; the Dullahans pointed.

“Take them!”

“Venaz—”

Marian’s head swung left to right. The Minotaur was rummaging in his bag of holding.

“One second. It’s time to pull out my last resort. I can’t use this. No, not this one either. No. No. Damn. Why did I have to have such impeccable selection?”

“Venaz! Hurry up!”

Marian loosed an arrow at the Dullahans. The Humans ignored the students; they were charging the Dullahans. Only a few [Knights] remained, and they were mostly on foot. The Minotaur grabbed something. He straightened, and turned towards the Dullahans. Ignoring the arrows bouncing off his armor and the spell that crackled harmlessly over the metal, the Minotaur raised a fist.

“These are weapons from my homeland. The House of Minos and the Drath Archipelago fight with more than just spells. Behold! Art is a weapon.”

He raised a fluttering piece of paper and cast it into the wind. Pages flew upwards. Luan caught a glimpse of one. A painted dog, drawn in vibrant colors, fluttered through the sky as the Dullahans charged. Then, the dog moved. It stretched, ran, and raced forwards. Off the page. Into reality.

A dog as large as a horse leapt onto the ground. Its fur was brilliant white; it was outlined with black, and it had large, yellow eyes with intelligent pupils. It was a dog. But not a dog. It was…a drawing. A caricature of life.

Yet it moved. It was art, yet it bounded forwards. It was paint, ink, but it bit. The Dullahans shouted as the summoned dog leapt on them. The painting grabbed two Dullahans and worried them, shaking its head left to right.

“Don’t kill them!”

The Minotaur bellowed. The dog paused. The Minotaur pointed.

“Knock them down.”

The dog raced forwards. The Dullahans froze. They struck at the dog, but their clubs were ineffectual against the painted creature. And more of Venaz’s images were coming to life. First another dog, to match the first. Then a galloping horse, a unicorn but with two horns and a flaming mane. A screeching wyvern, claws extended.

“Summoned creatures! Fall back!”

The Dullahans shouted as they began fighting the monsters. The Humans raced forwards, attacking with the summoned creatures behind them. Venaz bellowed instructions at his creatures as he strode forwards. Luan took cover behind Marian, guarding her back as she loosed more and more arrows. The Dullahans were in disarray. Then a giant strode forwards, wearing a huge, horned helmet. The [Captain]’s voice was a bellow.

“Hold, you cowards. Those aren’t summoned beasts! They’re talismans. Painted Beasts. They’re as dangerous as Silver-ranked monsters. Hold your ground. Form a shield wall and fight them off. [Mages]—take the creatures apart. Don’t hold back.”

The [Mages] dueling on the roofs took aim at the summoned creatures below. Venaz growled as fire blasted one dog apart. He glanced up at the [Captain]. The huge figure strode towards him, larger than any Dullahan. Then the [Captain] removed her helmet.

A Minotaur tossed her helm aside. The Dullahans in her company advanced, shouting as they pushed the Humans back. The Minotaur swung a huge staff around, knocking a [Knight] senseless.She advanced, pointing at Venaz, who was shouting at his summoned animals to pull back out of the [Mage]’s range.

“Venaz of Hammerad! Turn and face me, coward!”

The Minotaur [Strategist] whirled. The Dullahan’s [Captain] threw aside her staff. She spread her arms. She was as large as Venaz. No, maybe larger.

“I am Shailt of Tergim. I challenge you to a duel. Fists. Run and forfeit your honor.”

“Never.”

Venaz bared his teeth. The Dullahans and Humans looked up and cleared the way as the two Minotaurs charged. The two roared as they came at each other. And when they met in a clash of steel, Luan could have sworn the earth shook.

Reeling. Regaining their posture. Trading furious blows, punches, kicks. Throwing each other. Locking horns and hands, struggling for a second’s advantage. Luan lost track of Venaz as the two threw each other across the street. He was in the thick of it now. Marian circled as Luan clubbed Dullahans trying to swarm the two. He was so lost in the fighting that, when the first Human appeared, he nearly hit her. The [Knight] jerked back. Then she lanced out.

“One side, [Soldier]!”

Luan saw her shoot past him. The [Knight] swept a Dullahan off his feet with a single slash from the wooden greatsword. Then she barreled into another group. She heaved, and they went flying. She was fast! And the Dullahans went down like pins in front of her.

“[Knight]! Call in the [Mages]!”

“[Sergeant]—”

“He’s down!”

“Sixth Armor Captain! Captain Shailt! We need—”

The Dullahans were in disarray. Caught between Venaz’s perishing summoned creatures and the Humans led by the [Knight], they were losing. The Dullahan [Mages] fled backward as the Humans and half-Elves rained down spells from above. And their [Captain], the Minotaur, collapsed as Venaz landed a punch to her jaw and shattered it.

“Healer!”

Venaz bellowed as he stood over the fallen Minotaur [Captain]. The Dullahans surrounded their leader, but Venaz forced them back. He cleared a path himself, bellowing for a [Healer]. The Minotaur was carried away. The Dullahans, seeing their company leader gone, retreated. The Humans let them go. The [Knight] planted her sword in the ground as Venaz, panting, bleeding from both nostrils, and stumbling, walked back towards Luan and Marian. The Centaur had only a few injuries; Luan was nursing a gash on his arm.

“Potion.”

The Minotaur tossed one at Luan and drank one himself. He stared at the Armor Captain being taken off the field.

“Damn. The jaw bone shattered. I—didn’t mean for that to happen.”

“You took that guy out. That was an Armor Captain. One of the Iron Vanguard’s company leaders!”

Marian stared at Venaz. He hesitated.

“She was strong. But she threw her weapon aside to fight me. It was a favor to me.”

“She?”

The Minotaur didn’t reply. He watched the [Healer] tending to the Minotaur. Then he turned. The potion bottle crunched in his grip, and the [Knight] stopped a few paces away. She planted her sword in the ground.

“You two are students, aren’t you? Venaz and Marian?”

“Who are you?”

The Minotaur clenched a fist. Luan looked around. There were over a hundred Human [Soldiers] around him. He didn’t like the odds. Marian shifted.

“Venaz—”

“Relax. If we wanted to attack you, we would have done so. We’re on the same side. This is the first engagement we’ve won this close to the city’s center. I know the two of you; my brother speaks highly of both of you.”

The [Knight] removed her helmet. Luan saw a shock of sweaty, auburn hair. Pale skin, a battle-maniac’s smile. Venaz snorted.

“Your brother? You wouldn’t be—”

“Talia Kallinad. Come with me. I think Wil will want to see you.”

Venaz hesitated. He glanced at Marian and Luan. Then he nodded.

“Lead the way.”



——



“All four [Captains] have withdrawn. Some of their [Storm Sailors] are fighting on, but the [Captains] are done. They’ve had their fun.”

“Xol took out three of my Autumn Knights. We can’t stop him.”

“Merrik’s down, Wil. Peki, everyone else in his group but Kaelma. And she barely got away. We’ve lost our hammer, no?”

Wil leaned over the war table. He checked the map once and then twice. It added up to the same tally.

Outmatched. Outmaneuvered. Part of him wasn’t surprised. What had he expected? Fighting Tulm was like fighting the Professor. Even with his surprise attack. Even with the other students—

This was it. Jekilt, Merrik, even Yerra and Cameral were down. The adventuring teams had retreated, and now the sailors were pulling out. They were tired of being beaten down. Wil glanced up.

“How many [Knights] can do battle still, Sir Kelm?”

The man hesitated.

“Sixty-four. Half unmounted.”

Wil nodded.

“In that case, have them prepare. We have one last assault left. Commander Wylint, I will leave you in charge of the rear. Keep us from being encircled long enough for us to settle things.”

“Lord Kallinad! I can keep going—”

The [Commander] was barely on his feet. Wil shook his head. His stomach was twisting. Was this it? He looked around. The faces around him were grim. As if they were really losing a battle. But they were losing. And it might not be life or death, but it felt like it. Wil closed his eyes.

“One last push. We take the plaza’s south entrance. Form up—”

“Wil!”

He spun. The [Knights] standing around him turned, hands on their wooden swords. But the voice wasn’t another call to arms. It was Talia. His sister walked with a slight limp. On foot; her warhorse had taken a fall and was being healed. And following her—Wil’s eyes widened.

“Marian? Venaz? Where have you two been?”

The two walked forwards, followed by a dark-skinned Human man that Wil had never seen before. Wil stared at Marian and Venaz. He’d wondered if Marian was still around with Umina—he hadn’t seen them captured. But he could scarcely believe Venaz had made it this far without being surrounded. The Minotaur glanced around as the Humans blinked at the two visitors.

“Wil, I met them when we engaged that Dullahan company. We sent them packing, in no small part thanks to these two.”

The Humans brightened at Talia’s news. Wil nodded. A small victory, but every bit helped. He looked at Venaz.

“Are you two trying to reach the plaza?”

“Trying. Is this your gambit to take out the best competitors now, Wil? I warn you; it won’t be easy.”

Venaz flexed an arm and stared around. The Humans stared at him. Wil nearly laughed.

“If I had time to deal with competitors—I wish our entire class was here. Or haven’t you seen the Iron Vanguard forcing us back? They’ve taken out all but a dozen students, and I think the rest are hiding. Where’s Umina, Marian? Did she get captured?”

“No. I think not, at any rate. We got separated recently.”

The Centauress frowned. She looked at Wil’s map. And then at the ongoing tally of numbers on both sides he’d written up in shorthand. She winced.

“This is it, then?”

“One last push. You care to join in?”

“We were thinking of trying our own hand. But if you offer us no choice…”

Venaz eyed the map. He snorted dismissively.

“A simple assault? That’s my inclination too, looking at your numbers. This is the moment. If you allow the Iron Vanguard to regroup, they’ll surround you. You press on, or you allow victory to slip through your fingers.”

The others at the table blinked at Venaz. But Wil nodded.

“He’s right. This is it. We can’t do anything else.”

“But assaulting the plaza directly? We can’t break through their ranks, let alone those Midnight Shields.”

Sir Kelm frowned. Wil nodded heavily. He saw Venaz hesitating. The Human man was elbowing him and whispering to Marian as well.

“What? And who is this?”

Marian chewed her lip, and then nodded. Venaz looked ready to protest; she kicked him with a hoof, and he growled, but let her go on.

“This is Luan. A City Runner. He’s helped us get this far. He had an idea. We were going to try it out before we ran into your soldiers, Wil. How much money do you have on you?”

Wil glanced at his sister. She raised her brows.

“Enough to pay for all of this. Why?”

“Have you thought about bribing the Forgotten Wing’s [Soldiers] to join your side?”

Wil’s eyes widened. He saw the officers around him glance up hopefully. But just as fast as Wil felt the surge of elation, he drooped.

“No. I hadn’t considered it, but it won’t work, Marian.”

“Oh come on. They’re not friends of the Iron Vanguard. And if we paid them, even something like five gold coins per head—”

“Even then. If we try, Tulm will outbid us. That strategy won’t work. Maybe it would if you found a patrol, but the Forgotten Wing and the Iron Vanguard have closed in around the plaza. You’d have to bribe them all together. And how could you even arrange that in the middle of a melee?”

Wil shook his head. Marian stomped a hoof.

“Damn! If only we’d had this idea sooner—”

Venaz pounded a hand on the table.

“Enough. It won’t work. In that case, I’ll lead the assault myself. Marian, you join us. Between us three, we might be able to force through the plaza. We’ll combine our charge Skills. I haven’t used any of mine. I’ll lead the charge on Tulm myself if he comes out. I can take that Dullahan, mithril armor or not. If he sends his Midnight Shields, put your [Knights] against them.”

He pointed at Talia and Sir Kelm. Wil was nodding, even as he weighed the odds of Venaz getting past Xol. But what other choice was there? Marian was shifting uncertainly, but nodding. And then Feshi spoke.

“You forgot to count me, as usual, Venaz.”

The Minotaur blinked. He looked past Wil and saw Feshi standing among the officers. She had been with Wil since the harbor. Now, the Gnoll bared her teeth in an unfriendly smile at Venaz.

“Fine. You’ll be part of our final assault, Feshi. Four of the Professor’s students stand a better chance than three. If you have any Skills—”

“Our assault? I didn’t see you fighting all this time.”

The Gnoll snapped back. Venaz ground his teeth.

“I found my own way here. And I will be the one to end it.”

“How? By beating Tulm with your fists? Not so, I think. But I have an idea. It’s my turn to shine. Wil. Will you lend me your ear?”

Feshi looked at Wil. He glanced at her. He thought Feshi had been sticking with him all this while out of desperation, perhaps hoping to claim victory if he won. Now the Gnoll was grinning.

“Do you have a plan, Feshi? One that can even the odds?”

The Gnoll nodded. She rolled her eyes upwards. Wil glanced up at the windows. Daquin’s citizens were watching, as were a pair of Wistram [Mages]. He wished he could appear confident.

“I can do a bit. I have yet to use my best Skill. But I have had a better idea after hearing Venaz and Marian’s trick, yes? I can even the odds. Even put them in your favor. If my plan works, I will pull away most of the Mithril’s reinforcements. But if I do it, I think I will lose my chance to win.”

“How? I mean—will you do it?”

Wil stared at Feshi. He wanted to believe she was lying, but unlike Venaz, Feshi was never full of hot air. The Gnoll smiled lazily at him.

“I can. If I fail, I fail. But if I succeed? I will hand a chance at victory to you, I think. Even to Venaz and Marian. But I will need to lead. So I ask for a deal, Wil Kallinad.”

Time was running out. Wil knew that. But he was grasping at straws. He met Feshi’s eyes.

“What sort of deal?”

“Hm. I want something to give to my tribe. I had hoped to bring a secret from the Titan of Baleros himself. But anything of worth will do. I require a present to give to the Meeting of Tribes. Can you offer me something like that?”

Wil’s mind spun. A present? Now? He opened his mouth to tell Feshi he hadn’t a clue. Talia leaned over.

“Two trading caravans from the Kallinad harbors straight through the Gnoll Plains over six years. Will that do?”

Feshi and the others glanced at Talia. Wil’s older sister winked at him.

“It’s not a bad deal for us. And it’s worth a good deal to Gnoll tribes. What of it, Miss Feshi?”

The Gnoll hesitated. Her eyes flickered.

“Four trading caravans. Each one led by at least a Level 40 [Merchant].”

“Deal.”

Talia reached out. Feshi gripped her hand tightly. Then she looked around. Sir Kelm, the other Humans, Wil, Venaz, Marian, and the City Runner named Luan all stared at her. The Gnoll smiled. Or was it a smirk?

“So close, yet so far, Venaz. Your idea was good. Excellent, even, yes? But you can take it another step. Using the Mithril’s own troops against him is one idea. But flawed.”

Venaz glared at her.

“It wasn’t actually my idea. But what do you have planned?”

“An army. One without fear. Numberless. To drown the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing alike. Your idea gave mine wings. So I give you credit. But this? This is my moment.”

The Gnoll’s eyes flashed. She walked past the war table, and she raised her paws. The Wistram [Mages] stirred, tracking Feshi with her eyes. But it was not to them the Gnoll looked at.

It was the people in the windows. The ones on the rooftops. Feshi shouted, her voice a growling roar.

“Citizens of Daquin! This is the final hour, yes? Tulm the Mithril waits! And our army, small as it may be, will challenge him a second time!”

There was a stir. The people watching from above looked down at Feshi. Some called out her name. Others just shouted encouragement. Feshi spoke above it all.

“We will try. But I think that we cannot win. Not against Tulm the Mithril. Not against the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing company. How could that be a fair battle?”

Silence. It was true. And yet—Feshi’s eyes burned.

“If only we had an army. Reinforcements. Wil Kallinad, he called an army from Terandria itself! If I could, I would call the Gnolls of Izril. But why wait for them when an army just as grand waits here?”

The citizens of Daquin stared down, confused, at Feshi. But some of them caught on. Feshi grinned up. She pointed with one paw.

“This is desperation. This is madness! Still, Tulm the Mithril awaits! The Iron Vanguard challenges the Titan’s students! And we are few. But if I called on you, would you come?”

Us? The shock rippled across the people standing on the roofs. Children, adults, laborers and shopkeepers looked at each other. And then down at Feshi in doubt. She wanted them to fight [Soldiers]? But the Gnoll was continuing.

“No one says that you cannot participate! So, come! We are only students! And you may not be [Soldiers]. But these [Soldiers], they have no swords. They cannot kill. And they are mighty. But with your help, we can win! Will Daquin help defeat the Iron Vanguard? Defeat Tulm the Mithril? You have that chance! Who will join us?”

She spread her arms out, raised them beseechingly. Then she looked up. Pointed. Every head turned towards a [Mage] of Wistram. He froze as every eye fixed on him.

“Will you? Wistram’s [Mages]? Do you have the courage to take up arms? This is a game. But it is your chance. The Professor challenged us to defeat a legend. Will you be part of that legend? Or will you live knowing, always knowing, that you could have made history and you did not?”

They stared down at her. And the Gnoll’s arms rose higher.

“I call upon heroes. I call upon champions! I call upon you, Daquin! What say you? Have you any lions that prowl through Baleros’ jungles? Would you be Nagas? Or would you be Drakes, hiding behind your walls?”

She grinned. And then the silence broke. There was laughter. The Lizardfolk sitting above laughed. Drakes? They laughed, and the first Lizardfolk swung himself down, dropping two stories.

“I’m no Drake!”

A door opened. A serpentine figure slithered down the steps.

“And I am Naga.”

She slithered forwards. And at that, a score of Lizardpeople rushed out the doors. And then Dullahans. They marched out their doors. Dullahans, Centaurs. Humans.

“For history?”

A Dullahan [Baker] adjusted his head on his shoulders and grabbed a rolling pin. He looked around. Feshi grinned.

“For Daquin.”

And they came. In tens. Then hundreds. Then thousands. Children had to be restrained by parents. But the rest came, shouting. Laughing. Cheering the bold Gnoll who dared them. Because they were Lizardfolk, Dullahans, Centaurs, and yes, more species still. Some had cheered for the Iron Vanguard. Others had no strong interest in the students winning. But they were citizens of Daquin first. And she had offered them a chance for history, a chance to be part of history.

It was just a game, after all. Wasn’t it? Wil stared up. The Humans looked around, counting. One street. Then two. Feshi turned back towards him.

“We can hold them for half an hour. The rest is up to you. Be the lance and break them.”

Then she turned and bounded forwards and the city erupted around her. Wil watched her go. Then he turned. Venaz was blinking. Marian shuffled her hooves.

“Wow. I didn’t know Feshi was that good.”

An arm squeezed Wil tight. Talia was flushed with excitement as she pointed to the map.

“This is it, Wil! We can do it! The Iron Vanguard will be stuck in the streets! If they beat down Daquin’s citizens, they’ll be called monsters!”

“Even if they try, there are ten of Daquin’s own for every one of them.”

Sir Kelm observed quietly. He was frowning, eying the soldiers around him. Wil nodded. Then he frowned.

“We have one problem, though.”

Venaz snorted.

“Which is? You’ve just been given an army of tens of thousands! What could be wrong now?”

Wil glanced up at him and shook his head.

“No one can stop Xol. Without lances, the [Knights] have as much chance of slowing him down as—we tried ropes, and he pulled a dozen horses off their hooves. Could Centaurs do better, Marian?”

“Uh—”

Marian paled, which was as much an answer as any. Wil shook his head. He looked at his sister and Sir Kelm. If it came to that—

“Let me try.”

Someone spoke behind Wil. He turned. The City Runner was looking with interest at the map. He glanced up and around. The table stared at him blankly, the Minotaur and Centaur sharply. Luan smiled. His arm flashed gold as he held up a hand.

“I think I have an idea. I can stop Xol for a while. A few minutes, at least. Pay me and I’ll do it.”

Wil blinked at him. Talia sucked in her breath. It was a ludicrous notion. But in this moment, all things seemed possible. And—Wil glanced at Talia. She nodded.

“How much?”

Luan thought for a second.

“Ten gold pieces. And eighty silver pieces to pull it off. I work cheap.”

Wil opened his mouth. Talia grabbed gold from a pouch and tossed it at Luan.

“Done. Are you sure it’ll work?”

“Give me a few minutes. Where is he?”

Wil pointed.

“This street, as far as we can tell.”

Luan nodded. The [Strategist] stared at him, searching.

“Do you have a plan?”

Luan grinned.

“I think so. I know a fact about War Walkers. My best friend knows a lot about Dullahans, you see. And I don’t fancy fighting in this final battle. Venaz, Marian, I’m coming back for my fee after this.”

“Stop Xol and I’ll double it.”

The Minotaur folded his arms. Luan shrugged. He jogged off. Wil turned back to the others. It was just a flicker of hope, but it was there. He took a deep breath.

“Here we go. Sir Kelm, ready your men. Commander Wylint?”

“Sir?”

“No rearguard. We trust the streets to Daquin. We’re going in. Form up. Marian, Venaz, and I will all take to the front.”

He looked at the other two. Marian reared, making the Humans step back. Venaz flexed his arms and grinned fiercely.

“To victory. We’ll go in together. Three of the Professor’s finest. You two had better move fast. Or you’ll lose to me. Come! Form the ranks! Prepare the charge!”

He turned, roaring orders as if he were in command. Wil watched him go. Marian rolled her eyes. But there was a spring in her step as she followed him.

Talia turned to Wil. His sister glanced back at Venaz, and then leaned forwards. She indicated Venaz’s back.

“I like him. But he smells terrible.”

Wil laughed. And in the street, Feshi turned. Wil nodded.

“Go for it, Feshi.”

She couldn’t hear him. But she led the street forwards anyways. Wil mounted up. He knew word was spreading like wildfire. From scrying orbs. From word of mouth. And even the Wistram [Mages] were hesitating. You could feel it in the air. Didn’t you want to be part of it?

You could hear it. A roar that filled a city. A burning force as bright as the feeling in Wil’s chest when he’d seen the ships approaching from the harbor. Only now, it burned in everyone. If you had to call it something, you could call it hope, or courage, or just inspiration.

Victory. Something everyone wanted to taste once. It came from a thousand lips, in a thousand voices in a thousand words. But they were all saying the same things. And if you listened above the roar of people filling Daquin’s streets, you could hear the Titan laughing and Tulm the Mithril finally losing his temper.



——



A small thing, in between Wil, Venaz, and Marian leading the Terandrians in a last-ditch charge. In between the Iron Vanguard coming out in force, leaving only their last line of defense around the plaza. Struggling to cross streets filled with Daquin’s citizens, who gave the [Soldiers] the fight of a lifetime. In between that moment, there was just him.

Xol of Ingrilt. He strode forwards. He had heard the call to rally. He knew what was happening. But he was too slow. And there were too many people in the way.

The streets were filled with civilians! Xol cursed as he strode forwards, shouting to clear the way. People ran out of his path, but the War Walker had to be careful. Xol tried to move fast despite the danger to Daquin’s citizens. He was no fool. He knew this was the endgame.

They’d rallied Daquin, somehow. It was a masterful trick. Worthy of the Titan himself. Was this his plan all along? Had Tulm foreseen it? Perhaps. Perhaps not. If the Mithril had one fault, it was that his strategy was pure, like his armor. It could deal with any eventuality. But only if Tulm himself was allowed to be free. When he was unfettered by rules, he would destroy. And it was a terrible thing. But here—

Time was running out. Xol swept aside a group of Centaurs trying to block his path, stepped over a Lizardman kicking at his foot.

He had to hurry. Victory or defeat would be the difference in how long it took the scattered Armor Captains to regroup with the main force, to encircle Wil and the remaining students as they pushed forwards. A minute could be all it took for the students to reach the plaza—or for Tulm to capture enough and cement his victory. Just a few seconds of time—

The War Walker was nearly there. He turned down a side street, saw the trap too late, and halted. He was already caught. He shifted. Just an inch. But any further and he would—Xol slowly raised one wrist. He spoke into the gem embedded into his gauntlet.

“Xol. I request immediate support. I am trapped and unable to move. Request immediate support.”

He heard the distant reply, but it was too late. Xol was caught. And the battle began even as he stood in place. Helpless against the most insidious of traps. What could stop a War Walker, a [Juggernaut]? One of the Iron Vanguard’s strongest?

A little Lizardfolk girl. She was happily standing on one of the War Walker’s feet. And Xol would have shifted, would have lifted her off and placed her to one side with the utmost of care. But for the other children clinging to his leg. The Centaur running around his other foot. The children, Lizardfolk, Dullahan, Centaurs, who ran around him, laughing in delight.

“Move, children. Please. I am needed.”

They shrieked in terror and delight. Xol stared down at them as they refused to go. They were holding something. A glint of silver. Coins.

Slowly, the Dullahan looked up. He cast around for the creator of the trap. And found him. A man, a Human man, stood a few feet ahead of Xol. He met the [Juggernaut]’s eyes and nodded.

“I’m told War Walkers can’t have children, so they prize babies and children above all else. And Dullahans themselves are very careful around the young.”

“Who told you that?”

“A friend. He’s met War Walkers before. And he knows a lot about Dullahans.”

“I see. And you are?”

The man walked forwards. The children waved at him, and he waved back with a slight smile. He offered another coin to more children who ran up. They ran towards Xol excitedly. Free money to get to run around a War Walker? Xol turned his head and saw a few parents looking alternatively terrified and amused. But he wouldn’t move. The Human was right. Xol looked back at him.

“Luan. I’m a City Runner hired to help an annoying Minotaur out.”

“I see. That explains things. A [Strategist] would not have done this. Using children, even to win a game, even if you are assured of their safety, is wrong.”

Xol stared at Luan. The City Runner shrugged a bit.

“Good thing I’m not a [Strategist]. Besides, they seem happy enough.”

He indicated the children happily trying to climb up Xol’s legs. Xol was afraid, more afraid than he had been all day, that one of them would fall off. He held very still and looked at Luan. The Human was smiling a bit. Xol spoke carefully. Levelly.

“Once a patrol reaches me, I will help end this game. I would advise you to be out of my way when that moment comes. I cannot waste any more time, but if you are still here, I will hit you.”

Luan lost his smile. He hesitated, eyed Xol, and then decided it was time to go. Dullahans were already fighting their way through the crowd.

Luan hurried off. Xol watched him go, and then noticed a Lizardboy about to fall off his shoulder. He reached out and caught the child as the Lizardboy fell with a sharp cry. The child laughed with giddy relief as he scrambled up Xol’s arm. The War Walker’s head turned to watch more children swarming up his body. He stared up and saw a Wistram [Mage] watching him with a smile on her face from a rooftop.

Xol sighed.



——



On they came. Tulm the Mithril stood by the entrance to the plaza, his gaze burning like cold embers. Watching. On they came. An army of Humans. [Knights] riding in their armor, like Dullahans. [Soldiers] on foot. [Mages] flying or moving across the rooftops with [Archers].

And citizens. Civilians. They joined the final push, fighting against the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing companies, secure in the knowledge that this was a game. That they could fight without fear for their lives.

It would be so easy to drop a [Fireball] among them. It would be so easy to cheat. Because this was cheating. Wasn’t it? Daquin was rioting. The civilians were fighting—even in the plaza! The Councilmember had to be carried out on stretchers with bruises. They’d even gone after Wistram’s [Mages], who’d elected to impartiality after all.

“We have immunity! We’re with Wistram!”

A [Mage] shouted as he tried to levitate out of a crowd of citizens all too ready to knock him over the head. But those were just words. And in this moment, words were useless. She had already used them.

The Gnoll, leading the city. Madness. Tulm memorized her face. And then he looked forwards. The Gnoll was too far back. She’d never make it. But here they came.

Three of them. A Minotaur. A Centaur. And a Human. The [Knights] charged into the Iron Vanguard’s formation with a roar that staggered even the Midnight Shields. Which one was using a Skill? One? Two? All three?

It didn’t matter. Tulm signaled. Every soldier not holding the crowd back pressed forwards. Every [Mage] was casting spells, battling the Humans and Daquin’s citizenry, forming walls of earth.

And yet, they came on. Over walls of earth, shattering barriers of magic. Overrunning formations of steel and flesh. It was almost inevitable. As his teacher would say, they had the momentum. And something else.

“Youth.”

Tulm the Mithril sighed. He walked forwards. For the first time, he donned his helmet. His armor shone. And as the sunset marked the end of Daquin’s long day, he strode into battle.



——



The world watched. Marian led her charge, shooting arrows as [Knight]’s spears splintered on wooden shields. She shouted, fighting forwards with Sir Kelm. The Midnight Shields formed a line in the sand. And they held. But with each step, they were forced back.

“Forwards! [Unit: Freedom’s Gallop]! On me!”

Marian turned and wove back through the press of bodies. Somehow, despite the melee, her hooves landed in open space each time. The [Knights] and Sir Kelm followed her, charging out of the crowd and straight back in. The bodies seemed to move magically out of the way.

The second charge hit the Midnight Shields as they fought in the melee—Marian saw one Dullahan in black armor go down to a strike from Sir Kelm’s spear. She kicked at another and saw the Dullahan raise his shield. Marian reeled; she felt like she’d cracked a hoof!

But they were faltering. Just another push! Just another—Marian looked around and saw Wil striking from horseback. His sister was with him, on the ground, dueling an Armor Captain. There were even some students in the press. They were all fighting forwards. Nearly. Nearly—

And then she saw him. He strode forwards, followed by a dozen Knights of the Summer. Venaz. His voice picked up above the rest.

“[Unit: Enhanced Strength]. [Unit: Unstoppable Advance].”

Marian’s blood chilled. Here he came. And Venaz had used both of his Skills. The [Knights] following him swung their weapons, and the Midnight Shields faltered. The armored Humans didn’t break stride as weapons struck their armor. They could not stop. They could not be stopped.

The lines broke around Venaz. He cleared the area around him, punching, knocking Dullahans flying. For one minute, he was unstoppable. After that, it would be over.

But a minute was all he needed. The Minotaur rampaged forwards, bellowing. And he was headed straight for the plaza.

No! Marian fought to get to him, but her Skills were too deadly. And he was the best for this moment. Wil was shouting, and his soldiers were fighting, but Venaz was entering the plaza.

Only one person stood in his way. The Dullahan’s armor shone as the Midnight Shields backed up around him. He waited, his armor glowing with light. Venaz bared his teeth in a savage grin as he came face-to-face with him.

Tulm the Mithril.

The fighting slowed. Both sides, Humans, and Dullahans turned to look. You couldn’t help it. They watched, waiting. Would the Dullahan retreat? Could he stop Venaz? The [Knights] locked blades with the Midnight Shields. Venaz charged. He had thirty seconds. Less. But all he needed was to take out Tulm. If he fell—

The Dullahan stared down at Venaz. He looked past the Minotaur, at the distant shape of Xol charging through the crowds, but too slow. Too far. The Dullahan looked up. Teura hovered overhead. He stared up, and the Titan of Baleros waited. They both smiled. Ruefully. And Tulm spoke.

“[The Twice-Born Warlord].”

Venaz raised a fist. Tulm looked down. He raised a hand. Caught the Minotaur’s fist. And—

Marian glanced up. She ducked. The Minotaur landed behind her with a thump that shook the ground. He blinked down at his torn armor. Then he looked up at Marian.

“I might have underestimated him.”

Marian looked up. Tulm raised a fist. A Knight of the Summer raised his shield and spoke a Skill. The Dullahan hit him. The [Knight] went flying.

“How?”

The Centauress stared. Then she looked back. Xol approached. Calmly, the War Walker bent. He knocked Sir Kelm off his horse. Marian ducked as a finger flicked at her chest. She felt the crushing strength. The casual, incredible—and then she had it. She looked up and saw Tulm turning. He hurled another [Knight] back. And he looked up at Xol and nodded.

One and the same. One as strong as the other. A monster of strategy and one of might made into one body. [The Twice-Born Warlord].

“I can—I can do it. Give me a second.”

Venaz was getting up. He clutched at his chest, spat out some blood. Marian turned. Tulm was striding towards them, ignoring the blows against his mithril armor as if they weren’t there. The Centauress raised her bow.

“Tulm.”

The Dullahan’s head turned. Wil rode towards him. His sister called out, but she was locked in combat. Wil raised his sword in a salute. Tulm nodded.

They walked towards each other. Venaz heaved himself up. He charged Tulm from the left, Wil from the right. And Marian? She leapt.

The Dullahan blocked Venaz. He knocked Wil from his saddle. He looked up and reached—too late. Marian leapt over his head. She collided with a Midnight Shield. Hit the ground. Ran forwards.

“Stop her!”

“Go, Marian!”

Voices behind her. Marian raced across the plaza. An open shot. A last line of Dullahans was between her and the Professor. She could see him, sitting on his platform, grinning. Waiting. The Centauress ran. She fired twice as she ran. Her hands had never moved so fast.

[Hurricane Arrows]. The air blasted around her arrows, twisting. The Dullahans held. They were turning, encircling her. But she could make it. Marian turned, dodged a net. She felt something strike her back left leg.

“No—!”

She went down. A [Mage]’s spell seared across her leg, and Marian screamed in agony. She heard a roar from the crowd. Protest. Tulm’s cold voice.

“Enough. Non-damaging spells.”

“Strategist. I—I have no excuse. But! I sense—”

“Enough. Take her. Xol, the Minotaur.”

“Face me, you—”

Marian struggled to three hooves. Healing potion. She was reaching for it. Tulm was striding towards her. A [Mage] behind him whirled, desperately casting spells as a volley came from half of the Wistram [Mages] present. They were all distracted! Marian got to her feet. So close. If she could just leap—

And there he was. Standing up. Watching her. Niers Astoragon waited. Venaz charged forwards, ducking Xol. Wil ran. Tulm whirled, uttering another Skill and a curse. Marian leapt—

And the stone ground went pop. Marian saw the head poke up, like a cabbage. Niers Astoragon leapt up with an oath. Tulm whirled. Marian landed and crashed as her bad leg gave way. Venaz ran into Xol’s fist. Wil stopped in his steps, panting.

The Midnight Shield whirled. They stopped. Tulm the Mithril stared down.

A little head was poking out of the ground. Off-center. Just inside the circle of rope. A little head, covered in what looked like and smelled like…crap. It was unmistakably a Lizardgirl’s head. Her neck-frills were dirty, covered in filth, but she was blinking. Staring around. She gaped up at Niers. And then she looked delighted. She saw Marian and looked guilty.

Then Umina stared around. Everyone stared back. She wavered. For a second, Umina hesitated. And then she put on her best smile. She looked up at the Fraerling staring at her.

“Uh. Hi, Professor. Did you know that [Nightmen] make excellent sappers? And that there’s an outhouse—excuse me, communal waste pit twelve feet from this spot? Well…underneath, now. And that if everyone’s busy, you can sneak into a pit and wait till all the [Mages] are occupied and, uh—”

She broke off. Umina stared about. Then she retreated into her hole. Marian stared. She looked at the Titan of Baleros, who was blinking at the hole. At Tulm, who had gone white with fury. At Venaz, Wil, and the thousands of others.

And Marian tried. She really did. But she couldn’t find it in her to be glad for Umina.

No one else looked happy either.





6.24 D


There she was. Like a soiled yellow bell pepper, poking up out of the ground. Or—or a lemon covered in crap. Or maybe a yellow onion that someone had dropped in a latrine, half recovered, and then sprinkled with bits of pink—

You know what? There were no proper analogies. None at all. Umina’s yellow scales with the pink patterning was distinct in itself. Add that to her head poking out of the hole in the ground incongruously, and the—not to put a fine point on it—waste that had splashed on her in the tunneling process, and you had a sight like no other.

Marian stared at her friend. Tulm the Mithril stopped in his tracks. The Iron Vanguard, the struggling students, citizens of Daquin, and, oh yes, the world stared at Umina. She half-ducked, as if trying to retreat into the tiny tunnel she’d squeezed her head out of.

Niers Astoragon snickered. All eyes turned towards him as the Fraerling chuckled. The look of surprise that had crossed his face vanished in a moment. And it was replaced by hilarity. The Fraerling bent over, putting his hands on his thighs on his wooden platform as he laughed, and then guffawed. He tried to stop it, but he had to lean against a tumbler not to fall over.

The Titan of Baleros was laughing uncontrollably. He laughed and laughed, and the world waited, uncertain, disappointed. Angry, even. And the Titan of Baleros laughed on.

After about a minute of him laughing, people started getting upset. They looked at each other. And then they caught themselves. Looked around. At the streets full of people. The Human [Knights] from Terandria, fighting with practice swords against the Iron Vanguard. Xol, looming over Venaz, frozen in place with his fist raised uncertainly.

Some of the people in the plaza began to laugh too. It didn’t take everyone; the Dullahans, especially the members of the Iron Vanguard, just looked to Tulm in silent trepidation. But Lizardfolk rolled on the ground laughing, Centaurs snorted, Humans went ha-ha to various levels of actual humor—the [Knights] were as stone-faced as the Dullahans.

Laughter. Marian didn’t laugh. She was staring at Umina. The Lizardgirl was looking around, laughing but not really laughing, and looking more nervous than she ever had before. She was also deliberately not meeting Marian’s eye. The Centauress shifted her stare to Tulm.

The mithril-clad Dullahan was staring at Umina. He was still aglow with the light of battle. The strength he’d borrowed, no, copied from Xol burned in him. His eyes flashed as he turned his gaze to his teacher. He was not amused. And, to be fair, a lot of other people weren’t either.

Teura, the half-Elf from Wistram, looked apoplectic. As if her own pride had been wounded by the sudden and anticlimactic end to the Titan’s game. Some of the other captured students looked shocked and outraged as well. And the Humans around Wil, especially his sister and Sir Kelm, looked equal parts shocked, horrified, and furious. And it was anger that was beginning to grow as shock faded.

Before any of that could boil over, Niers Astoragon caught himself. The Titan choked, coughed, and stood upright. With a monumental effort, he stopped his raucous laughter, coughed again, and tapped a ring on his finger. His voice boomed through the plaza, making Marian rear slightly in alarm.

“Enough! The game is over!”

The Titan’s voice was like a wave. It cooled the air in the plaza instantly. The laughers stopped laughing. The anger vanished from the other faces. They stared at the Titan as Marian stopped rearing. She landed and nearly screamed; suddenly, pain was blooming through her leg!

Marian looked down and saw scorched flesh. Her stomach roiled. She suddenly recalled the Dullahan [Mage] who’d hit her with the fire spell, and the pain took that moment to remind her that, yes, she was in a lot of pain. She staggered, and Niers saw it. The Titan leapt up, like a grasshopper, onto the head of the nearest Midnight Shield. He pointed at her.

“[Healer]! Healers to the front at once! Everyone else, hold your ground! Weapons down! The game is won! Anyone with a healing potion, bring it out now and treat anyone in dire need! Move back! Slowly—I want those on the outskirts to move back! Disperse! Clear the streets of bodies if you’re uninjured! Anyone who is injured, scream for help!”

His words contained the same force Tulm the Mithril had used on the students at the start of the game. But there wasn’t the same oppressive pressure; people just moved and only realized they were obeying halfway through. They broke up, and Marian saw the old Lizardwoman running towards her.

“Hold still!”

“My—my leg.”

Marian gasped. She pointed at her fetlocks, where the pain was radiating from the worst. But her entire leg was black. She could smell her cooked flesh.

“I see it. Don’t move. Raise that hoof off the ground!”

Marian obeyed, wincing. The [Healer] bent over her, her tail twitching angrily.

“Magic burn. What spell was it? [Firebolt]? Something along that line. Tier 2, but potent. Don’t worry. I can fix this. I need a second to make sure the healing potion works the right way, though—what idiot cast this? If it had hit your chest—”

She rummaged around in her satchel by her side, ripping out a jar and tearing off the lid. There was a thick cream inside. The [Healer] grabbed the good part of Marian’s leg and began applying it. Swiftly, and probably as gently as she could, but Marian still suppressed a cry as she held still, quivering.

“Hold still. Good, girl. You’ll be fine. I just need to apply this, or the potion won’t get to your skin. Burns don’t heal right—this is going to hurt.”

“Aah! Aaaah!”

Marian had assumed the cream was some kind of painkiller, or a concentrated healing poultice. It was not. It was in fact closer to acid—she could feel it eating into her skin! She tried to move her leg, but the old [Healer] had a grip like steel.

“Hold. Still. The potion can’t work on burnt skin. It’s cauterized. Give this ten more seconds—”

“Healer to the eastern plaza. I see five Dullahans downed and a [Knight] in need of aid. Don’t touch that man! Lay him flat and don’t remove the armor; the [Healer] will do that!”

Niers’ voice boomed past Marian. The [Healer] winced. Marian, tears leaking from the corners of her eyes with the pain, saw a shape charging towards her out of the crowd. The Dullahans around her moved back. Tulm the Mithril was still staring at Umina, but now he glanced up and walked left.

“Marian!”

Perorn ran through the crowded plaza, around bodies, through gaps as if she were unimpeded. And she was; Marian saw her moving through the crowd as if they weren’t there. A Skill worthy of Fleethoof. The older Centauress stopped in front of Marian. The [Healer] snapped up at her.

“Her leg’s burned. I’m healing it. Stand back!”

“I have a potion. Higher quality. If she needs it—”

“She’ll be fine. Stand back, I said! This isn’t serious, and I got to it in the first minute. The wound looks clean; I can see blood now. Marian, you will feel—”

The [Healer]’s voice drowned out as the pain shooting through Marian’s leg was suddenly, instantly, relieved. The Centauress put down her leg instinctively and looked—the flesh was regrowing before her eyes.

“Raise that leg! Keep it up until the potion’s done!”

Marian did as the [Healer] snapped at her. Perorn looked down, and the old [Strategist]’s face was filled with relief. She glanced up at Marian and for a second the younger Centauress saw a hint of pain in Perorn’s eyes. Unconsciously, Marian glanced at Perorn’s back right leg. The damaged one. Perorn limped back a step as the [Healer] straightened, and glanced backwards.

Her eyes met Tulm’s. The Dullahan looked at her. Perorn stared back.

“Fire spells? Are you mad? They could have killed Marian or crippled her for life. That one seared her to the bone.”

“It was an error on the part of my [Mage]. He panicked and reacted instinctively.”

Tulm replied coldly. He glanced past Perorn at Umina. She was shifting in place and calling out to someone below her. The Dullahan glanced over his shoulder.

“Tunneling?”

“Mithril, I barely picked it up. I was concentrating on defensive spells, and there was no sign until a minute in. The tunneling began so close to this location. I have no excuse.”

The pale [Mage] saluted. Tulm stared at him. Niers Astoragon, from his perch, surveyed the plaza, then looked down. Everyone was moving back, but several people were pushing towards him. Teura and the Wistram [Mages] were among them.

“Lord Astoragon, what—”

Teura stared at Umina. The Lizardgirl stank. She was wiggling, trying to get free of the very narrow opening in the ground. Niers ignored the Wistram [Mage]. He was looking at Tulm.

“Any objections?”

Tulm the Mithril glanced up at him. He paused for a long moment, and then shook his head.

“I concede.”

“Very well. Will you take your forces back now or stay the night? Your wounded should stay here; I will arrange transport back.”

The Dullahan removed his head and shook it.

“No need. We will send a ship the next day. Until then, I take my leave.”

“What? But—”

Teura backed up as Tulm walked past her. She was struggling to keep up, as was Marian. Niers just nodded. Tulm paused and turned his head back, although his body kept facing the other way. His head stared at Umina.

“A final question. What is the name of this student?”

“Umina Caxical. One of my advanced students.”

“I see.”

Tulm stared at Umina. She quailed. Then the Dullahan placed his head on his shoulders. He walked forwards. And his voice rolled through the plaza.

“Iron Vanguard. Return to your assigned warship. Leave the injured.”

The Dullahans and other [Soldiers] in the square belonging to the Iron Vanguard stiffened. They turned and began marching as the Midnight Shields broke formation around Niers to surround Tulm. There was no precise march or accompanying drumbeat this time; the Iron Vanguard left in disarray, slowly forming up into units as they marched back.

It was so quick! Marian stared. She still hadn’t gotten past the fact that Umina had won. Umina. By tunneling through the privy! She looked back at Umina, who was struggling, one arm free.

“Steady—steady! I’m going up, not down. Just don’t drop m—”

“Lord Astoragon, is this really the end of the game?”

Teura demanded, as if she couldn’t see Tulm and the Iron Vanguard marching away. Niers turned to her, raising an eyebrow.

“Of course. Or do you not see one of my students trying to extricate herself from the ground? I do. And if this is an illusion, it’s a fantastic one. Your audience might not be able to smell Umina, but I can. Wonderful work, by the way, Umina. If you’d been a moment slower, you might have lost. And if you’d been too early, Tulm would have detected you, I have no doubt.”

“Thank you, sir. Uh—could someone help pull me out?”

Umina waved an arm. She seemed to be sinking down despite her best efforts to get up. Marian could hear muffled shouts from beneath the earth. Something below seemed to be caving in. She made no effort to help Umina.

Neither did Wistram’s finest. They kept staring at Tulm. Marian could hear someone shouting from the scrying orb. It sounded like one of the Drake [Commentators] having a heart attack. Niers ignored them all. He clapped his hands together and beamed around.

“A fine game. Unexpected endings, always lovely. Don’t be alarmed by Tulm’s sudden departure. I imagine he has a schedule to keep, and he probably doesn’t wish to be interviewed, especially by a bunch of inbred leeches—I mean, the wonderful [Mages] of Wistram. Let’s clear up the plaza, get the wounded sorted out, and then we can move onto the conclusion. Perorn? Lend me your shoulder, will you? My Dullahan needs to go.”

He hopped off the Midnight Shield’s head, and the black-armored Dullahan marched away at speed. Perorn caught Niers, placed him on her shoulder, and turned. The [Strategist] was already shouting more orders at the crowd. Marian looked at the [Healer]. The Lizardwoman slapped her leg. Marian yelped.

“That hurts!”

“Tender flesh. Lots of nerves. Good. You’re healed! Just don’t go galloping for a day.”

The [Healer] stood up briskly, already looking for another victim to heal. Marian stared at her. She looked at Niers.

“This is so sudden! Shouldn’t there be an announcement? Or something? Or—”

“Plenty of time for that later. He said the game was over, didn’t he? Good thing, too. I was getting tired of fixing people up. Anyways, what do you want? You lost. That Lizardgirl won, and good thing too. I won money. She won; game’s over. Wasn’t the worst game I ever saw, wasn’t the weirdest either.”

Marian stared at the [Healer] as she put the lid on her jar and tucked it into her satchel.

“What, really?”

“Absolutely. This was tame compared to last time. Alright! If anyone’s hurt, scream! If not, you can fix yourselves—”



——



The game was over, but it didn’t feel over. It had gone down so quick, and the announcement had been so sudden—not to mention the Iron Vanguard leaving so abruptly—that no one felt like the game was actually done.

Which was intentional, Perorn could tell. Niers Astoragon had issued the abrupt statement on purpose. He was taking advantage of the confusion. People expected something to happen, and in that gap while they waited for the ‘correct’ thing to occur, he could fit in any number of his personal agendas. Some of them were important. Critical, even.

“[Healer] down that street! Move; there’s someone with a head injury on the left side of the street!”

The Titan ordered a group of [Healers] as Perorn trotted forwards. The Fraerling was surveying the city as a whole, using a scrying orb for its actual, intended purpose for once. And the [Healer] corps he’d dispersed rushed en-masse about the city, tending to the most in need of aid first. There were a number of people who needed it. [Knights] unhorsed with head injuries, horses hurt in the battle, members of the Iron Vanguard who’d been trampled—

“Tulm the Mithril pulled out in a second. Was that prearranged?”

“Healing potion! I didn’t actually arrange that, Perorn. That’s just Tulm. He’s smart enough not to want to stick around and have me rub defeat in his face. And he lost, so he’s not getting what he wanted. Believe me; if he’d have won, he’d be sticking to me like glue this instant.”

Perorn grunted. That did sound like Tulm. He hadn’t even claimed his injured soldiers. He was just off, giving no one time to see his defeated expression. Not that he’d show weakness that obviously.

“Bastard.”

“Careful. There are [Mages] still listening to us. Which brings me to my second point. I’m going to make a little show of awards in a second. Would you help me with…?”

Niers leaned over and whispered into Perorn’s ear. The Centauress nodded, turning her head to survey the plaza.

“Fine. I’ll find the other teachers. You can show off as much as you like. Where do you want me to put you?”

“One circuit of the plaza. I want our [Healers] to get to everyone they need to first. Then the pedestal. That would do.”

Dutifully, Perorn circled the plaza as Niers ordered his [Soldiers] to help disperse the bewildered crowd. Half of Daquin’s citizens were still clutching their weapons uncertainly. Perorn eyed them.

“Feshi actually managed to rally the city into fighting!”

“Wasn’t it brilliant?”

Niers smiled. Perorn eyed the torn up street, the injured people being tended to, many of which were Iron Vanguard members, and didn’t know if she agreed. She walked back towards the pedestal, and Niers leapt onto it.

“Citizens of Daquin! Thank you for your patience!”

The plaza jumped as one. Niers’ eyes twinkled as the Fraerling took the spotlight once again. He spoke casually, letting his amplified voice ring out across the plaza.

“And to my students and the audience, thank you as well. Let me repeat myself. The game is over. And we have a winner. One of my students has infiltrated the winner’s circle. From the ground! You may not have seen her, but I present to you—Umina Caxical!”

He gestured. Every eye fell on Umina, who was tugging a foot out of the ground. She froze and then waved a claw, looking terrified. She was still covered in dirt and stuff that resembled dirt. Niers smiled.

“A rather unorthodox win this time. It appears Umina tunneled under the ground through what I can only term a sewage depot. It appears the [Mages] in the plaza did not notice her. Nor did Tulm the Mithril himself. He has conceded defeat, so once again, congratulations to Umina on a victory well deserved!”

There was a moment of silence at that. Some laughter even sprang back up. It was so—ridiculous. But the Titan forged ahead as if it were perfectly natural, and his audience was caught.

“Very well, very well. I think a bath is called for, or a bucket of water at least. But let us not waste time. Tulm certainly hasn’t. The Iron Vanguard is returning to their ships, and my [Healers] are tending to the wounded. But the game is not quite concluded! As with every battle, I think the dissection afterwards is just as critical as the experience itself. So, then. Students! Class is in session! Gather around, all of you!”

His sudden bellow made the students in the plaza jump. Venaz, Wil, and Feshi all appeared, at once, but Niers was beckoning to another group. A mass of students, seated or standing, some nursing bruises, others unharmed. They stood up slowly and approached. Everyone but the Wistram [Mages] gave way to them. And they surrounded their teacher, the Professor, as if they were in class. Niers looked down at them and smiled.

“Well now. Thoughts on today’s lesson? Questions? We will be studying this in class when we return to the academy, you know.”

They stared at him. Then one of the students in the crowd—Yerranola—laughed. Niers smiled along with her.

“I’m serious, Yerranola.”

The Selphid stopped laughing. Niers walked up and down the platform, looking across the students. And suddenly, he wasn’t speaking to the plaza, Wistram’s [Mages], or to the audience across the world, but to them.

“Well. It was a fine game. Unexpected, yes. Unfair? Probably! But that is the nature of all games. And whether you were caught, or you survived to the end—”

He nodded to Venaz, Wil, Marian, and Feshi, who were standing together. Wil looked tired, almost too tired to be upset. Feshi propped him up with a sympathetic paw on his shoulders. She didn’t seem that put out. Venaz was still disbelieving, almost shell-shocked. Marian…she looked around for Umina. The Lizardgirl was hiding. The Centauress glanced back up and found Niers staring at her. His voice was soft.

“Whether you won or lost. Whether your plans went awry or failed in just one part to come to fruition. I saw it all. Your struggles, your defeats. I saw it. And you did me proud. Each and every one of you. I called for you to challenge Tulm the Mithril, and you did. For that, I thank you.”

His students looked up at him. The Titan, their Professor, smiled, and it was a fond smile meant only for them.

“I hope, no, I trust most of you will level up after today. Perhaps even more than once. But what sort of teacher would I be if I didn’t reward what I saw? So I have a few announcements to make. We have a winner of this game. Umina. Step forwards.”

And she appeared, from behind Perorn. Cleaner, but smelly. The students stared at her. The world stared, but this was a class. And Umina, flushing, afraid to meet anyone’s eyes, stood in front of Niers. He smiled gently.

“Congratulations, Umina. A prize from my vaults and the question of your choice is yours. When we return to Elvallian, I will set aside an appropriate date. Have your question ready then. Until that moment—well done. Your trick with the [Nightmen] was…inspired, to say the least. I didn’t expect it. Nor did Tulm. It was not a victory created solely by you, but you seized an opportunity. And that is the key to winning any battle.”

“Thank you, sir.”

Umina mumbled softly. Marian stared at her friend. And then Niers looked up. His gaze swept the students.

“But Umina isn’t the only student I have to reward. [General] Felk?”

A Drake walked forwards. He was one of the teachers. He stood next to Rustarmor and three other teachers from the academy. Felk looked around calmly and called out in a parade-grounds voice.

“Sillk. Venaz. Marian. Jekilt. Kaelma.”

The students walked forwards slowly, through the crowd. Marian saw the other students turning to look at her. She was suddenly nervous. She fell into place with the other students, glancing from side to side. Felk eyed them and nodded.

“Lord Astoragon?”

“Thank you, General.”

The Fraerling looked down from his seat at the students. He met each’s eyes in turn. Sillk’s abashed look, Venaz’s downcast expression, Marian’s stare, Jekilt’s level gaze, and Kaelma’s questioning glance. The Professor smiled.

“Don’t be disappointed. Or rather, only be disappointed in appropriate measure. This game was not easy to win. Chance played as much part as strategy. Nevertheless, I see fit to award you five for excellence during the game.”

The students looked up, confused. That wasn’t part of the game! Niers cut off Teura, who was trying to point that out. He shooed her back with one impatient hand.

“My game. My rules. Don’t interrupt, please. Now, where was I? Ah yes, Sillk. You first.”

The Lizardman walked forwards, hunched, checking his dark clothing. The [Rogue], who Marian had never seen once the game started, looked up at Niers. The Professor studied him kindly.

“I almost expected you to team up with Merrik. I’m pleased you two did not; you were most effective fighting in your strengths. I’m pleased to see you didn’t hold each other back with friendship.”

Sillk jumped. He blinked up at Niers, and then opened his mouth reflexively.

“Er, thank you, Professor.”

The response was so automatic that some of the students laughed unconsciously. And Marian felt something ease in her stomach. For a second it felt like class and a student giving a particularly bad response. Niers laughed along with the other students, and Sillk turned red. Merrik growled from the crowd.

“What do you mean, ‘thank you’? You’re getting it when this is over, Sillk!”

Niers waved a hand for silence. He went on, as, behind him, the scrying orb on his pedestal began flashing moments from the battle where Sillk had taken part.

“Very well done taking out the enemy officers. You got captured the instant the [Mages] tagged you with a locator spell, though. Any thoughts?”

“Uh—no, sir. I mean, yes, sir.”

Sillk turned bright red again and went on.

“I should have gone to ground sooner than I did. I regret not doing that. I opened myself up for being tracked; I should have been just as aggressive, or even more so, but then hidden. Instead, I got myself caught when I could have survived for much longer.”

Niers nodded appreciatively.

“Good answer. Well done indeed. I saw less leadership than I would have liked, but you coordinated well with Jekilt and your fellow students on the field. I’m afraid there’s not much of a reward for you, though. You’ll be eating tea leaves for the next three days.”

“Sir?”

Sillk looked blank. Niers smiled.

“I think Foliana has an opening for you in her schedule. She doesn’t have a set curriculum, but three days of shadowing her will prove instructional. Learn from her how she disappears.”

The students, who had been full of levity a moment ago, went silent. Behind Niers, Teura and the other Wistram [Mages] looked stunned. Marian felt the same way. She stared at Sillk. He was going to be taught? By Three-Color Stalker herself? She was notorious for not taking apprentices—as far as anyone knew. But this was a reward. And…

Did Niers have special training courses for [Assassins]? And if so…Sillk gulped, but he bowed.

“It would be an honor, Professor.”

Niers smiled drily.

“Say that after three days with Foliana. I have no idea what she’ll do, so I apologize in advance. Venaz.”

The Minotaur stepped forwards. Niers studied him.

“Interesting ploy with the City Runner. It would have worked if I had decided to take action against the students, but it handicapped you earlier on. I’m afraid you trusted to your battle prowess instead of considering a larger offensive.”

The Minotaur bowed his head, uncharacteristically quiet. Niers went on.

“You did well fighting through the patrols, though. And your leadership at the end took the fight to Tulm himself. I’m afraid you underestimated him, but the experience should be instructive. Venaz. Any thoughts?”

The Minotaur shook his head briefly.

“I have nothing to say, sir. I’ve embarrassed myself in front of my people.”

“Nonsense.”

The snap in Niers’ voice made Venaz look up. He met the Professor’s gaze. Niers glanced irritably at Venaz, and then the scrying orb.

“If you’re referring to hiding and being outclassed, that was a mistake every student here made save one. The point is how you reacted to adversity, not your preparations. With that said, you demonstrated considerable skill in making it to the end of the game unscathed. That alone merits a reward. And I’m sure the House of Minos agrees. If not, that is my sole opinion.”

Venaz stood a bit straighter. He glanced up at Niers, and then bowed his head quickly.

“Thank you, Professor. I…I was unprepared, but I found the value in teaming up with other students. No—more than that, listening to sound advice no matter where it came from. From the City Runner I hired, no less.”

The Titan smiled, and there was approval in his tone.

“That is a lesson worth learning. If you took away only that, I’d say you gained something from today.”

The Minotaur nodded and then hesitated.

“Yes, Professor. I have to ask—is Armor Captain Shailt recovering?”

“You may check on her later. I understand she was left in our [Healer]’s care rather than brought with the Iron Vanguard. Now, as for you, Venaz, I think some instruction into evasive maneuvers in an urban environment would be helpful. General Felk is an expert at urban warfare, and you’ll be accompanying him as he returns to his duties in a month’s time.”

“Yes sir. Thank you, Professor.”

Venaz stepped back, blinking a few times. Marian was next. She smiled as Niers asked how her leg was and complimented her maneuvers in the plaza.

“Thank you, Professor. But I really didn’t do much.”

Niers nodded calmly.

“True. Other students made more heroic efforts. But you made it to the end, and if you’d had a second or a few feet, you might have won. What have you learned?”

“How poorly I do in close-quarters combat, sir? I was nearly taken out by a [Captain]; my bow wasn’t nearly as useful as I would have liked.”

“The flaw of every [Strategist] is weakness in combat, at least compared to [Warriors]. I’m glad you recognize that. But since it is important, you’ll get to receive personal instruction from our weapons masters until you can use a bow to fend off even a Level 30 [Warrior].”

“T-thank you, sir?”

The Titan grinned as Marian stepped back. Some of the students winced, and one of them patted Marian on the shoulder. Kaelma received a similar gift; the [Fencer] had done well, but Niers pointed out her dueling Skills had been on display without any actual leadership. So she would lead [Scouts] on patrol for two weeks.

Now that it came to it, the Titan’s rewards didn’t sound like rewards so much as personalized training. Which was a reward, but it wasn’t always fun. Shadowing a [General], receiving one-on-one lessons from [Weapon Masters]…Marian groaned, imagining the bruises. Niers called over another group of students who’d also done well, but then someone else took his place.

Fleethoof. And when Perorn stepped forwards, the students looked up and went quiet. The watching [Mages] leaned in. The Centauress’ voice was crisp.

“Peki. Merrik. Feshi. All three of you did exceptionally well.”

“Indeed. I particularly liked—”

Perorn walked in front of Niers. She stared down at the three students, the [Martial Artist] Garuda, the Dwarf, Merrik, and the Gnoll who’d rallied Daquin, Feshi. Her gaze was severe, but Marian thought she looked pleased.

“Peki, outstanding fighting Skills. Subpar choice of opponents. You lack experience against fighting opponents with high-level Skills or artifacts. You will report to my company and engage in duels against my officers.”

Marian winced. Peki only smiled.

“Yay.”

The Centauress gave her an icy smile. She turned her attention to the next student.

“Merrik.”

“Fighting maniac from Pomle—er, hi, Professor!”

The Dwarf straightened, to a laugh from his fellow classmates. Perorn raised an eyebrow.

“Excellent leadership. You led your classmates and auxiliary fighters splendidly. Right up until the moment you wasted your best Skill in an early engagement.”

“Well, you see, Professor Perorn, I planned on—”

“You need experience. You’ll get that accompanying me. I plan on doing a patrol across our territories, battling monsters and [Bandits]. I expect you to learn something from the ordeal.”

“Oh, grandfathers. Not field training—”

Merrik shut up as the Centauress gave him a quelling glance. She looked at the third student.

“Feshi.”

The Gnoll smiled, baring her teeth. Perorn nodded.

“As far as ideas went, your ability to rally Daquin was exceptional. The rest of your performance was not.”

The Gnoll looked abashed.

“Hrr. Yes, Professor. I failed to use my best Skill at the end as well. I thought about it, but it would be little use with so many bodies in the way. How should I improve?”

“By learning to employ your existing Skills more effectively. To that end, you’ll be shadowing me on campaign. You’ll serve as my second. I expect you to fill that role to the best of your abilities.”

There was a gasp from the students. Feshi looked delighted and alarmed. She bowed.

“I will do my best, Professor!”

“Very good.”

The Centauress stepped back. Aggrieved, Niers cleared his throat once or twice. He looked at his students, then past them. Wistram’s [Mages], Daquin’s people, and his soldiers looked on. They were entertained, if puzzled by this moment. Now the Titan smiled, and they stood straighter expectantly.

“And so we have rewards. Or punishment. But exemplary though some performances were, and many were truly impressive, I have one student yet to call upon. Wil Kallinad. Walk forwards, lad.”

Every eye swung towards Wil. He was standing silently to the side. With some of the Humans from Terandria. Now he did walk forwards, and Marian saw his face was pale. He was…well, if Venaz was downcast, Wil looked smashed into the ground. He managed a stiff bow before Niers.

“Professor.”

“Wil.”

There was kindness in Niers’ eyes as he looked at Wil. He paused for a moment.

“You brought four warships from Kallinad’s harbors. Across the sea. And of all my students, you were the one to predict the Iron Vanguard’s arrival. You foresaw Tulm the Mithril, and you challenged him.”

“Yes sir. And I failed.”

Wil looked up steadily. Niers shook his head.

“I could argue that without you, none of the students would have had a chance at victory, much less succeeded. But you are correct. You were outplayed in the end. By guile.”

He gestured at Umina, who went even paler than Wil for a moment. Niers paused.

“If you could have done something differently, what would you have done, Wil?”

Everyone waited for his response. Wil opened his mouth, gulped a few times, and then croaked hoarsely.

“I would have won, sir.”

Silence. Niers nodded.

“Fair enough. I suppose you feel disappointed. I suppose the cost of four warships—and crew and [Soldiers], not to mention the [Knight] order accompanying you—weighs on you. And it should. [Strategists] may answer to [Kings], or [Generals], or any number of employers. But when we give our orders, our analysis, lives hang in the balance. On our decisions a nation’s hopes and lives may rest. Never forget that.”

Marian held still. Wil was shaking with each sentence, but nodded.

“Yes, Professor.”

Niers waited. The world waited. The Titan walked back and forth, studying Wil.

“You lost. But you took on Tulm the Mithril. Don’t forget that either, Wil. You surprised him. I know Level 40 [Strategists] that can’t claim the same.”

Wil’s head rose. Niers went on. His voice rose slightly as he gestured in the direction of the harbor.

“It was a masterful move, Wil. I saw the ships coming because I looked. I lost them after they left the harbor, but I knew they were coming. Next time, everyone will be looking, so learn to prepare decoys and cover your tracks. You’ll never be able to pull the trick you pulled today as easily. And that is because the world knows your name. The world saw you outmaneuver a Great Company. Come this close to victory. And for that display, I have only one thing to say. Umina.”

He turned. The Lizardgirl jumped and stuttered.

“Y-yes, Professor?”

Niers looked at her. She looked at Niers. The students, Daquin, and the world, as always, held their breaths. Niers glanced around, then he smiled.

“I’ll see both of you later. Umina, I’ll have your gift ready. Wil, no gift. You did lose. But have a question ready. Both of you.”

Marian felt her heart catch in her chest. Wil’s eyes widened. Marian heard a wild cry and saw Wil’s sister raise a hand in the air. And then Wil opened his mouth to say something—to protest—but it was drowned out by the roar of sound behind him.

Humans, and not just Humans! Daquin’s citizens screamed and clapped and shouted in delight with the others. The students around Wil swarmed him, clapping his shoulder, shouting in excitement. The Titan stood on his pedestal and laughed as Teura tried to shout at him. He had to wave his hands for nearly a minute to be heard.

“Enough! Enough! No questions. The reward matches the deed. Enough said. So let’s continue. To my students, officers, strategists. To my soldiers of the Forgotten Wing Company and those of the Iron Vanguard who have yet to depart. To Daquin and its citizens, who won a victory over a Great Company this day. I congratulate you all. And as the Titan of Baleros and member of the Forgotten Wing company, I offer you my hospitality this night.”

At his words, Marian heard a roll of sound. Not the slow thunder of the Iron Vanguard’s drums, but a far more welcome sound and sight. Wagons rolled forwards, and [Servants] leapt down. From bags of holding, and the stores in the wagons, they began setting up tables. Chairs. Rolling out barrels; kegs were far too small. The students and Daquin’s people stared. Then someone shouted.

“A feast!”

“A feast indeed! My people are setting up across the city, so don’t swarm them here! I’m renting every inn, pub, and miserable dive in the city! Open your doors! And if one of my students leaves Daquin sober, I’m expelling that student on the spot!”

Niers roared, and his students cheered wilder than anyone else. They swarmed the tables and the [Servants], who had to beat them back with ladles as they tried to serve food. The excitement, expectation, and surprise of the last hour all faded as Marian looked around and realized how hungry she was, how tired.

So she pushed towards a table, grabbed the nearest edible-looking thing, ate, drank, and felt better. And she forgot about the heartache, defeat, and all the other emotions whirling inside of her. The game was over.

And that was a relief.



——



The Titan of Baleros had a flair for drama. But saying that was an understatement of understatements. It was like saying that Crelers had a bit of an eating problem. It completely missed how aggravating, how annoying Niers Astoragon could be. And while Perorn had worked with him for decades, he still managed to catch her by surprise.

Like now, for instance. She had coordinated the rest of the students’ ‘rewards’, which were rewards but really just rare training opportunities with the Fraerling. But the announcement about Wil winning the right to a question had caught her off-guard as much as anyone else.

She pushed through the crowd surrounding Niers, Wistram [Mages] demanding an interview, Councilmembers asking if he was really going to pay for everything, only to find he’d disappeared. He was good at that, too, which meant Perorn had to answer all the questions.

She found Niers after the mob had dispersed to go look for him. Or rather, he found her; the Fraerling had hidden in a little alcove underneath the pedestal. Like a spider. It was an uncharitable comparison, but Perorn wasn’t happy to be left facing a sea of aggressive questioners.

She glared at the Titan as he pulled himself back up the platform. No one noticed, not even the Wistram [Mages]. As Niers had once remarked, the fact that they trusted to spells to notice invisibility enchantments and so on and so forth meant that they were terrible at noticing the mundane. And Fraerlings were masters of hiding in plain sight.

“Quick, put me on your shoulder. Before they notice me.”

Briefly, Perorn debated ratting Niers out or abandoning him. But knowing him, he’d just wriggle out of it and cause her more trouble. So she held out a hand, and he raced up her arm as if he were running up a slope. He perched on Perorn’s shoulder, and she trotted off. The celebration was in full swing, and more than a few [Mages] and Councilmembers were distracted by the barrels already being emptied of expensive alcohol.

“How much did you spend on the celebrations?”

“Do you want to know that? Or do you want to kill me about Wil? You can take your pick, but I’d rather not add to how snappish you’re going to be.”

Niers dangled his legs over Perorn’s shoulder, looking more cheerful than he had any right to be. The Centauress glared at him, limping slightly as she walked across the city.

“What was that stunt at the end? You just ruined the purpose of the entire game!”

The Fraerling stroked his beard, unconcerned at her reaction.

“As a matter of fact, I did not. Umina still won. And she gets a larger prize than Wil, but he still earns the right to the question. It’s not as if this is the first time. I did it two games ago. Or would you have let Wil toss himself into the ocean after losing to Umina?”

“I’d have rather you gave him a suitable reward. Or are you sympathetic to him because of how much money he spent?”

The Fraerling raised his eyebrows.

“The reward matches the deed, Perorn. Or do you disagree?”

The Centauress hesitated. The Titan looked seriously at her.

“I overplayed his bravery and the challenging Tulm bit, but he outmaneuvered the Iron Vanguard. They didn’t see him coming. I lost track of those damn ships.”

“You did? Really? I thought you made that up.”

“Well, I was hardly able to send scouting ships, was I? He kept them out of sight of regular vessels the entire way across the ocean. Tell me you could do better. Name me one of our best [Strategists] that could pull off a trick like that without sweating. And then tell me the reward is undeserved.”

Niers stared at Perorn. She hesitated.

“I suppose not. Even so—you know what the Kallinads will want to know, don’t you?”

“Mmf. Something political. I have something in mind. It will cause a fuss, but it shouldn’t get back to us.”

Perorn eyed Niers. His idea of a fuss was largely different from hers.

“And Umina? The gold you spent on this party? Healing potions? Was it all worth it? Not to mention—how many died?”

Niers paused. His expression grew somber.

“Seventeen deaths. Eight of ours, two civilians, six from the Iron Vanguard. One [Knight].”

“Low on the Terandrian’s side.”

“I didn’t count the horses. Twenty-four of them.”

Perorn felt a twinge of pain. Horses weren’t Centaurs, but as distant kin, even if Centaurs were vastly more intelligent than horses, she felt the pain.

“What will you do about that?”

The Titan swung his legs in silence for a moment.

“Award the families double the standard pension. This wasn’t a battle. They weren’t meant to die. I’ll reach out to the Seer of Steel for his people. And I’ll have someone speak to Sir Kelm of the Order of Seasons about his [Knight].”

The two moved in silence for a minute after that. Well, Perorn walked, and Niers sat. She could already see people eating, talking animatedly, clustering around a [Mage] in hopes of appearing in the scrying orb, and pairing up. The relief, the adrenaline and rush of triumph—it was almost as if this were the end of a battle. She spoke quietly to Niers.

“People always die. [Soldiers] die in camp when they quarrel with each other. Or after visiting a brothel and having their groins slowly rot off them. They die tripping while marching.”

“I know. It doesn’t change that this was my game.”

“Even so. You don’t have to—”

“We’ll pay them, Perorn.”

The Centauress dropped it. She looked at Niers. And thought. She knew her boss well. And she knew that nothing with Niers Astoragon was straightforward as it seemed, even when he looked like he was on a razor’s edge.

“You didn’t answer my question.”

He stood up and stretched. Niers absently raised a tiny whistle around his neck and blew it. The shrill sound was quite inaudible to Perorn, but she knew what was coming. She glared and reached out to grab him. He sidled down her shoulder, dodging her hand.

“No. I didn’t. I’m going back first to Elvallian. You’ll be back at the academy tomorrow? The students will head with the convoy, but you can run back if you want to meet me there. We should plan out the students’ curriculums after this.”

The Centauress known as Fleethoof glared. She knew Niers wasn’t trying to hurt her—at least, she thought he wasn’t—but sometimes it felt like he forgot on purpose.

“I’m in no condition to run.”

Her right hind leg hurt. Now that Tulm was gone, Perorn felt her tendons protesting her every movement. Healing potions hadn’t saved her leg after it had been hamstrung; she had saved some mobility, but the pain and her own aging body made her old feats of speed a distant memory. She scowled, and Niers looked up at her.

“It will feel better by the time you return.”

“Oh, really? And do you have a poultice for me? I don’t want one. I told you, [Healers] with painkillers don’t change the fact that my leg can’t move the same way it used to. And I won’t damage it just so you—”

“Perorn.”

The Titan stopped her with a word. He could do that. But Perorn swore that if the next words that came out of his mouth didn’t placate her, she would knock him off her shoulder and stomp on him. She waited as the Titan met her gaze. A tiny man on her shoulder. Perorn heard beating wings. Niers looked up, and then smiled crookedly.

“I told you you’d have a good day. Do you think seeing Tulm humiliated slightly was all of what I meant?”

Perorn blinked.

“I—yes. Of course. If it wasn’t just to see this, then what did you bring me for?”

Suddenly paranoid, she stared hard at Niers. But he only gave her his most enigmatic smile. He leaned forwards. And suddenly Perorn felt a hum as her rings warned her that he’d just employed an artifact. His anti-listening spells. He whispered in her ear.

“Venaz. Search for Armor Captain Shailt. Try to be discreet. Let him take the lead.”

“What—”

Niers stepped back. Perorn grabbed for him, but it was too late. He tipped his hat to her and leapt up. Perorn stepped back as a claw descended and snatched the Fraerling up like a bug. The owl flapped its wings once and took off. The Fraerling sped into the night as the trained bird flew back towards the academy, as fast as a swallow.

Perorn watched him go. She cursed once. But she knew the owl would be flying too high for her, even if she decided to race after him. Damn animals. The Titan employed [Beast Masters] among his other tricks.

And then Perorn thought about what Niers had said. And her instincts, the little animal sense at the back of her brain, tingled. She looked around, murmuring.

“As bad as Foliana in his own way.”

He loved secrets. But he seldom lied outright, so Perorn went searching for Venaz. She found the Minotaur a few minutes after a certain City Runner did. Perorn had to stop and speak to Daquin’s Councilmembers, as well as Wistram’s [Mages] and everyone else vying for her and Niers’ attention. Again.

Luan had to check on his boat.



——



The game was over. She’d won. Umina walked around the streets of Daquin, feeling drunk on exhilaration, confused, and almost, a tiny bit, disappointed. Because no one was trying to kill her. No one was screaming that she was a cheat and should be punished. People seemed…happy.

But she wasn’t. Umina felt as guilty as she ever had, worse than when she’d pushed her neighbor’s son down the stairs because he’d shoved her the day before that. She’d seen Wil’s face after the game ended, and the disappointment on Venaz’s. But the worst had been Marian.

She’d been so close. Umina’s heart had stopped when she’d poked her head out of the ground and seen Marian leaping at her, and Tulm, Tulm the Mithril blocking her way. And he’d looked at her. And asked her name.

Umina’s heart pounded wildly at the memory. But if she dwelled on that, she’d start shaking, so she kept walking. Daquin’s citizens were in the streets, making merry with Wistram’s [Mages], the Forgotten Wing soldiers, and the students. They were the noisiest, and the center of attention, demanding to see themselves in the scrying orbs, which were on replay as Noass and Sir Relz gave their commentary on the game, drinking, being toasted and toasting each other—

And crying. Yes. There were tears amid the laughter and congratulations. Frustration, jealousy, disappointment—the other students had done their best after all. Some had spent money, or time, or any number of things on victory. And Umina had won. She tried to slink past the first few groups, head on a swivel for Marian. But the third wave of students clustered around a food table spotted her.

“It’s Umina! Get over here!”

A Dwarf’s bass voice roared over the crowd, and everyone turned. Umina froze, but Merrik appeared and tugged her over to his table. He and some of the officer students were drinking, and they greeted Umina with shouts of delight. And surprisingly, none of them seemed angry. They sounded angry, but only for a second. Kelsa merrily cursed at Umina as she and Kaelma practiced quaffing. Jekilt shook his head as he drank more sedately from a mug.

“You bastard of a Lizardgirl, you did it! Right under our noses! Hah!”

Merrik slapped Umina on the back and then wrinkled his nose.

“Phaw! You still stink! Here, take a drink and pour it over your head!”

He grabbed a mug and filled it with one hand. Umina took the mug, trying to speak, and saw a huge, feathery shape appear next to her. Peki tilted her head and nodded a few times.

“Good trick. Dirty trick. I didn’t see it coming. Good job, and I hate you.”

She nodded at Umina as she dipped her beak into her drink. Umina ducked her head.

“I’m sorry—”

“Sorry? What’s there to be sorry about?”

Merrik was instantly outraged, as were several other students. Jekilt shook his head as he trotted over. He was eating some sticky balls of rice sweetened with a lovely sauce Umina knew from back home. Her stomach rumbled, and Jekilt passed her a few. Umina scarfed them down. The [Captain] shook his head.

“There’s nothing to be sorry about. You won, Umina. A win’s a win. It makes all of our effort look pointless, though. Which is the lesson the Professor probably wants us to learn.”

He looked at the others. Kaelma nodded as she tilted her head back and took the drink down hard, gulping it down. Umina blushed.

“I still feel bad. You were all fighting so hard, and I used you as a distraction. Especially Wil. I couldn’t have done it without him occupying the Iron Vanguard.”

Merrik grinned.

“Hear that? She couldn’t have done it without us occupying all of the Iron Vanguard’s [Mages]! Which means—eh—wait—so no one would have won if we didn’t do our best. But since we did, Umina won. But if we’d all acted like she did—so how would we have won?”

He broke off, muttering to himself. One of the others, the Oldblood Drake with the folded wings, shrugged. She spat a small wisp of darkness out; it dissipated quickly in the blood-red evening sky.

“Probably by having a better endgame plan. Facing Tulm the Mithril in a scrum was suicide. You saw how he flattened your Minotaur with a single punch, right?”

Jekilt nodded.

“Venaz? I’ve never seen anyone do that. What was the Skill he used?”

“[The Twice-Born Warlord]. Now there’s a Skill worthy of a legend.”

Merrik sighed longingly. The others nodded. Peki frowned.

“You think he has the Skills too? Is he exactly as strong as Xol? These are the questions. I would have liked to fight him.”

“Fat chance of that now. You saw how he swanned off at once. Can’t take a defeat, that one.”

“It’s not like he’s going to stay and drink with you, Merrik. Or that he’d be that fun to hang around. I am disappointed that Xol left, though. I wanted to ask him to sign my helmet!”

“Me too! And I owe him a punch for smashing me into the ground! My head’s still ringing! Hey, did you see how he took out Tefret? Poor bastard didn’t even stand a chance. And I thought he’d be the one to make it to the endgame! Let’s see if we can get it on replay. Oi! You, the [Mage] with the hat!”

Umina edged back from the group as they turned on a [Mage] trying to pour an entire keg’s worth of alcohol into a bag of holding. She was glad, really, but she had a job to do, so after raiding the food table for a very tasty rodent of some kind on a skewer, she headed out in search of the person she really needed to talk to.

It wasn’t hard to find her. Marian hadn’t gone far, and she stood out from the crowd because she was, well, a Centaur. Even in packed spaces, Centaurs got space. After a horse stepped on your foot once, even by accident, you didn’t let it happen twice. She was eating from a plate heaped with oats and covered in a spicy salsa that the Centauress liked. Even though it gave her indigestion.

She was talking with another Centaur, a student from another class. Umina edged over. She knew Marian saw her, but the Centaur [Strategist] didn’t acknowledge her. Umina coughed.

“Uh, Marian. Can I have a word?”

The other Centaur glanced over and saw Umina. Marian turned her head and something about her posture might have given away her feelings; the other Centaur made himself scarce in a moment. Marian and Umina stared at each other. The Centauress chewed her food, and swallowed. She spoke shortly.

“Hi, Umina. Congratulations on winning.”

“Thank you? I mean—I wanted to say sorry.”

“What for? It was a game. You won. Congratulations.”

Marian furiously shoveled another mouthful of oats and nearly choked. She glared at Umina.

“Everyone knows all we had to do was win. You did that. Good job.”

“Marian. I really am sorry. I just—”

“Just what, Umina? Just stabbed me in the flank?”

The Lizardgirl was silent. Marian took a deep breath. She stared at Umina, and a note of hurt entered her voice.

“I thought we were a team. Wasn’t that what we said? Why did you run off?”

Umina traced the ground with one foot.

“I—I just had an idea. You know, with the [Nightwoman] we met? I wanted to see if she’d help me. I didn’t know if it would work. It was just an idea. I thought it wouldn’t work, so…”

“If you thought it wouldn’t work, why didn’t you tell me? No, don’t answer. You thought it would work, and you wanted to win.”

Marian abandoned her food entirely. She tossed her plate on a table to fold her arms. Umina protested weakly.

“I really didn’t know. And—look, I knew you and Venaz wanted to try Luan’s idea. You might have succeeded! You nearly did.”

“Except that you won.”

The two stared at each other. Marian tossed her head angrily. Umina spoke in a small voice.

“I really am sorry. I didn’t know you were that close. If I’d known…Marian, look. I have a question, alright? And I get an item from the Professor’s vaults. What if—if I gave you the question? I can ask it and tell you—”

Marian jerked as if Umina had slapped her. Her cheeks grew red.

“Don’t patronize me! If you’re going to stab me in the back, don’t give away your victory. You won. You ask the Professor a question. Don’t be like—”

She waved an arm, frustrated. Umina nodded. She looked down at her claws.

“I really am sorry, Marian.”

“Yeah, well. Sorry doesn’t change anything, does it? We were supposed to win together.”

That was true. Umina rubbed at one eye. Marian glanced at her. Looked away. Then she looked back.

“I suppose at least one of us won.”

“Marian. I’m so—”

“Don’t say it. Just—fine. Fine, okay?”

Marian reached out and grabbed her friend. She hugged Umina so tightly the Lizardgirl squeaked.

“I’m not forgiving you just yet. I’m out a lot of money thanks to you, and I have to duel a [Weapon Master] every morning now! You owe me big. So you’d better tell me a bit about what the Professor’s room is like and what he says to you. Got it?”

The Centauress let go. Umina nodded rapidly. She opened her mouth, caught herself, and decided to stop talking for a while. And that helped. So did the alcohol Marian filled up in a huge tankard. The Centauress drank down one mug, then another. In quick succession. So went the legendary Centaur tolerance for alcohol. After that, Marian looked more cheerful.

“And at least I didn’t have to wade through that sewage again. That almost makes it worth it. Was it nasty?”

Umina shuddered.

“You have no idea. The last place we were in was clean compared to the one I had to have the [Nightpeople] excavate.”

Marian paused as she grabbed her plate of oats.

“It wasn’t that bad.”

“Oh yeah? How’d I get poo on my head?”

Marian thought about that. She put her plate back, no longer hungry. Umina wasn’t much either. She looked around, struck by a thought now she’d talked to Marian.

“Where’s Luan? I didn’t see him. Did he get captured?”

“Him? No. I lost track of him in the final push. He helped us out, though. And he stopped Xol! With children, no less! He’s one interesting City Runner. Want to see if we can find him?”

“He stopped Xol with—yes, let’s find him!”

Marian nodded. She led Umina through the crowd, catching her up while Umina described in brief her adventure in the septic tanks, locating the right one and waiting for her moment. In truth, Marian’s story was far more engaging; Umina’s had mostly been one of patience and trying not to throw up.

“Oh, look! There he is!”

Umina spotted Luan in the crowd. It wasn’t hard to find him either after a bit of searching; he was Human, but his skin tone made him look Chandrarian, and the Terandrians were also a bit shorter than he was. Umina waved excitedly.

“Luan!”

“It’s you two. I saw you won. Good job!”

Luan smiled as he walked over. He’d been looking around the party. Now he grinned at Umina in a satisfied way that told both [Strategists] that he had no idea how momentous Umina’s victory had been. Umina glanced at Marian.

“Thanks. I, uh, well, I owe you for encouraging me. And giving me the idea, really. Where were you? Did you get captured in the end?”

“Me? No. Once everyone poured out of the apartments, I decided to stay back. I’ve been looking for my boat at the harbor.”

Luan made a sour face. Umina frowned.

“Your boat? I didn’t see it.”

“Exactly. My scull’s wrecked and sunk. It wasn’t that strong to begin with, but the collision—I’ll have to take a Centaur cart all the way back to Talenqual, or rent a canoe here. I’d rather take the cart.”

Luan scowled. Marian raised one brow, slightly offended by the comparison.

“Since you’re still here, can I ask whether or not you’ve been paid?”

“I have your gold. But I haven’t seen that damn Minotaur yet. Do you know where he is?”

The [Rower] scowled. Umina looked around.

“Not me. But that’s a good point. Where is Venaz? I’d expect him to be arguing with everyone and challenging all the officer classes to a fight.”

Marian craned her neck. She shaded her eyes against the sunset’s glow.

“He looked down after the battle. Was losing really that hard on him?”

“Let’s find him. I want to apologize to him as well.”

“Don’t bother. I’m the one you owed the apology to.”

“Marian…”

The two were joking as Luan looked around with a frown. He took in the tables, and Umina distinctly heard a gurgle from his stomach. He pointed hesitantly to a table laden with food.

“This food’s free, right? Can I get some even if I’m not a citizen of Daquin?”

“Of course!”

Luan smiled.

“In that case—hold on. I’ll be back in a second.”

He hurried over to a table and grabbed a plate. Umina laughed. And then she saw something peculiar. Luan reached into a pocket and, after a glance around, pulled something out. Umina saw a bright glow, almost like a spell coming from a little device in his hands. The City Runner held it up and did a slow circle, before going over the buffet with it in hand.

Almost as if he were…she frowned and nudged Marian. The Centauress spotted Luan’s motions and nodded. The two trotted over as Luan filled a plate. He put the little rectangle back in his pocket. Marian casually glanced at his laden plate and cup.

“Nice selection. What was that flash of light?”

Luan froze for a second. Then he gave her a disarming smile.

“Uh—artifact. I, uh, just wanted to get a better look. So my friends back at the company could see everything. Where do you think Venaz is?”

Neither the smile nor quick topic change fooled Marian or Umina. They exchanged a look. Interesting. It could have just been any number of minor magical artifacts. But given that it was Luan…Umina’s instincts tingled.

Something to discuss. Or look into. But neither [Strategist] brought it up. Instead, Umina looked around with a frown.

“He mentioned that Armor Captain. Shailt? What was that about?”

“Oh! You missed it, Umina. We ran into an entire company right outside the apartment, and Venaz was challenged by their leader. She was a Minotaur, and he actually took her down!”

“An Iron Vanguard’s Armor Captain?”

“That’s what I said! He was worried about her. Something about her jaw? I don’t remember. Let’s find a [Healer]. He might be with them.”

Ironically, the [Healers] were hardest to find. Not because they didn’t have an aid station set up where those too badly hurt to be cured immediately were being treated, but because it was so hard moving from street to street.

Daquin was packed, and people who recognized Marian and Umina just had to come up and congratulate her, or tell Marian how close she’d gotten. Luan had finished one plate and was halfway through another by the time they spotted a familiar horned head talking to a [Healer].

“Venaz! There you are. Why aren’t you having fun?”

The Minotaur turned around. He still wore the uncharacteristically depressed expression he’d had earlier on. He nodded to the Lizardgirl.

“Umina. Congratulations on your victory. It was well-deserved. I need to remember that underhandedness in the future.”

They were the right words, but without any of the arrogance that normally came with it. Umina blinked up at Venaz. He noticed Luan and grimaced.

“Luan. I haven’t found my money pouch. I’d get the Merchant’s Guild to withdraw me some coin, but—”

He gestured around the chaotic streets. No Merchant’s Guild was going to be open; Umina saw a [Merchant] dancing in the street with a [Barman]. Luan folded his arms.

“Can you borrow some?”

“From another student? I suppose so. I’ll do it in a few minutes.”

The Minotaur sighed. This melancholy was so unnatural that all three, Luan, Marian, and Umina, stared at him with worry. Even Luan, who’d known Venaz all of a few hours.

“Venaz, what’s wrong?”

He shook his head slowly and glanced towards the aid station. It was a commandeered inn, and the patients were resting upstairs. Although given the raucous streets, the rest component was debatable.

“I’ve disgraced myself in front of my people. No matter what the Professor says.”

“What? You hardly did worse than anyone else. You even got a reward! I know it wasn’t as good as Wil, but—”

“Not that. I know my performance wasn’t stellar, but I demonstrated my abilities and faced off against Tulm himself. I don’t regret that. It’s Armor Captain Shailt.”

Venaz pointed towards the door. Umina glanced in, but the other Minotaur must have been upstairs already. She glanced up at Venaz.

“Is she badly hurt?”

“It was a weaponless match. If she’d kept her weapon, I have no doubt I would have lost, even if I’d used one of mine. But the duel was fair. I pride myself on my victory! She’s at least a Level 30 [Warrior]—the fact that I bested her is a mark of pride. Or it would be. But her jaw—”

He broke off and stared at one of his clenched fists.

“I misjudged my strength. I was wearing gauntlets. I hit her too hard, and my punch shattered her bones. I know it did. I felt it.”

“But that wasn’t all your fault. She challenged you.”

Marian shifted her hooves uncertainly. Venaz shook his head stubbornly.

“To injure another Minotaur is normal. If this were a battle, even a death could be understood. But in a sparring match? A game? A permanent injury is far different than a wound that could be healed by potion. If I force Armor Captain Shailt to retire because of my careless blow, I could never forgive myself.”

He paced back and forth in front of the inn. And he looked so guilty that Umina couldn’t help but feel bad for him. She’d never seen Venaz beat himself up nearly this much over anything, even losing to Marian. And in a way, she could respect his guilt. She put a hand on his arm, standing up on tiptoe to do so.

“Hey. It’ll be fine. The Professor runs a Great Company, Venaz. You think he doesn’t have the best [Bone Healers] around? If Shailt doesn’t get better with the [Healers] here, I’ll bet he calls in an expert, no matter the cost. The Iron Vanguard will for one of their Armor Captains.”

Marian nodded encouragingly.

“They have experience with all kinds of injuries, Venaz. There’s no way you did enough damage with a single punch to be beyond fixing.”

Venaz perked up a bit, but grew despondent just as fast.

“True, true. But even then, shattered bone is different from a break. All the pieces—you can’t even heal them with a potion. And if the wound begins to heal before it can be seen to—”

Umina wondered if they could find the Professor, or another [Healer] to reassure Venaz. She was about to suggest it when Luan, who had been listening intently, stepped in. The [Rower] tapped Venaz on the shoulder and spoke seriously.

“If your Armor Captain doesn’t have the right [Healer] see to her here, Venaz, my company can help out. Either bring her to Talenqual, or I can bring my friend to her. There’s a [Doctor] in my company who can mend almost any wound. She might be able to restore even shattered jaws.”

“Your company?”

Umina blinked at Luan. Venaz did too.

“Your stupid company?”

Luan sighed.

“My company has an expert with us. She’s a [Doctor], not a [Healer].”

The man said it as if this were a good thing. All three [Strategists] blinked at him. Umina swished her tail uneasily.

“What, one of those weirdos who hacks off limbs with saws and stuff? They’re…okay, I guess, but most of them aren’t better than a [Healer] with decent potions.”

Luan looked offended.

“She’s far better than that. My friend—Geneva—she’s saved hundreds of lives on the battlefield. [Soldiers] had a name for her because she was so good at saving lives, they call her the Last Light of Baleros. I saw her save a War Walker shot full of Evercut Arrows once. His arm was nearly gone, and she reattached it by herself.”

Marian whistled slowly. Umina’s jaw opened. She had never heard of the Last Light of Baleros. But a [Doctor] who could reattach an arm? Short of serious magic or a healing potion like no other, that was incredible. And Evercut Arrows? Venaz stared at Luan and spoke slowly.

“A [Doctor] who can perform that level of healing? On a battlefield? That’s…incredible. If I had a [Doctor] like that in an army, I could reduce casualties by…you could create a vastly more efficient army that way!”

He was blinking fast. Umina waved an urgent claw.

“But she could also help Shailt, if need be, right?”

“I don’t see why not. I can at least ask her. She’s mended broken ribs, and all kinds of other breaks before.”

Luan nodded. Venaz looked up. He frowned, then nodded decisively.

“If Shailt does not recover. No, even if she does. Luan. If your [Doctor] friend is willing, would she consider journeying to Elvallian? I’d like to introduce her to the Professor. That is—the Titan of Baleros.”

The [Rower]’s eyes widened. Umina and Marian glanced at Venaz in surprise, but not for the same reason. Marian snapped her fingers.

“That might actually impress the Professor. If he hasn’t seen something like this already. Damn. Can I take partial credit, Venaz?”

“No.”

“You want Geneva to come to your—city? To meet the Titan?”

Luan spoke slowly. Venaz nodded.

“Why not? He’s always interested in new ideas. And even if he doesn’t allocate class time, I could get his interest by running an experiment. Hire someone to be cut open and test her versus a healing potion. Or break a leg. Yes. What’s her rate?”

“Rate? I, uh—”

“Venaz. There you are.”

A voice interrupted Luan as he blinked and tried to respond. The students and City Runner turned to see an older Centaur trotting towards them. Marian bowed slightly.

“Professor Perorn!”

Luan looked up at the Centauress as both Venaz and Umina bowed slightly as well. He stared at her, and the Centauress stared back. Her eyes shifted to Venaz.

“I was told you were asking about Captain Shailt. Her injuries don’t seem to be outside of healing. Lord Astoragon has sent for a healer specializing in this kind of injury. You needn’t worry. Who is this?”

Venaz let out a relieved sigh. He gestured to Luan.

“This is Luan, Professor Perorn. Luan, this is one of our teachers. Perorn Sadiluc.”

Luan bowed slightly, copying the students. And again, Umina saw he had no idea of who Perorn was.

“Pleased to meet you, Professor. City Runner by water. I’m a [Rower]. I was hired for this game by, uh, Venaz.”

The [Galewinds Strategist] nodded politely as well. She looked Luan up and down searchingly, and Umina wondered if she was unhappy about the City Runner’s participation. No. That made no sense. But she definitely seemed interested. Then again, Professor Perorn was the sort of person who would sweep a dirty corridor in the academy if she spotted it.

“Did I hear you saying you intended to bring someone to the academy, Venaz? After the last incident with the fire spitters, I’d hope you’d run any ideas by a teacher first.”

The Minotaur hesitated as Marian snorted.

“This is hardly on the same level, Professor. I’m considering inviting a [Doctor] with exceptional skill. She’s apparently renowned as the Last Light or something. You see, it would fit nicely with my proposals about a casualty-intensive battlefront that I intend to submit to Professor Astoragon…”

Marian and Umina both rolled their eyes, but Perorn’s eyebrows shot up. She glanced sharply at Luan and shifted her hooves slightly.

“The Last Light of Baleros? I heard a rumor about her. Tell me, how good is she?”

Luan frowned. He hesitated, and then nodded decisively.

“The best in the world. I think I can say that definitively.”

This time all three students made sounds of disbelief. But Perorn didn’t. She looked at Luan, and then glanced at the other students.

“One second, please.”

Umina backed up as Perorn drew Luan aside. They spoke for a moment, and she saw Luan glancing at Perorn’s hindquarters. No, at her leg. Umina’s jaw dropped. Marian blinked rapidly.

“Does Professor Perorn think—”

“No way. The best healing potions didn’t save her leg.”

“But a [Doctor]—don’t they just cut off arms?”

“Sew them back on too is what I heard. Mad. I heard they were close to [Necromancers]. But the Last Light of Baleros?”

“Hmf. Luan didn’t lie. Not according to my amulet. I’d better do more research. If he’s telling the truth—”

All three broke off as Perorn exclaimed.

“Really? You’re sure about that?”

The students tried to covertly shuffle forwards. They caught the tail-end of Luan’s reply.

“I don’t know. But she could reattach a hand that’s just been severed. And I know of operations that can splice tendons together. Maybe Geneva could…”

Both Centaur and Human looked up. Venaz looked up and pretended to stare at the sky. Umina tried to whistle. Marian turned around. Perorn glared.

“I believe I was clear on the meaning of privacy. Or do I need to prepare a lesson on civility as well?”

“No Professor.”

“Sorry.”

“It’s an open street.”

Marian kicked Venaz. Perorn looked at Luan. She nodded curtly.

“Bring her to the academy. I’ll authorize it. I’m sure Lord Astoragon will if need be as well. We’ll send a formal invitation along with the cost of travel expenses. Does this [Doctor] need any tools?”

Luan smiled. He looked excited, as well as nervous.

“She has her own set. And she has a number of tools that can help with everything from sickness to delivering babies.”

“Delivering babies? Alright, now I’ve heard it all.”

Marian was derisive. Luan protested.

“She can do it! Geneva’s capable of delivering children when there are difficulties in childbirth as well.”

Umina was skeptical.

“You say that. But childbirth, fixing bones, reattaching arms…this isn’t some fake cure-all, is it?”

She expected Luan to grow defensive. But to her surprise, the man’s expression calmed. He smiled.

“No. It’s medicine. You see, what Geneva performs is known as a Caesarian Section. Anyone can do it, but she is one of a few experts—perhaps the only one who can do it reliably. The way it works is—”

It was just as well Umina hadn’t eaten much. She listened to Luan’s description with mounting horror. A way of cutting open stomachs to remove babies inside the mother? It sounded barbaric. And yet, Luan described it with such confidence and detail that Umina was impressed, despite herself. Venaz was shaking his head after Luan was done.

“Babies, limbs, I have to see this. So does the Professor. If you’re not lying, bring her over by all means.”

“I’ll arrange it. And yes, Venaz, you’ll get credit.”

Perorn stomped her hooves briskly. She looked around.

“You all enjoy the night’s party. I have to return to Elvallian.”

“Oh! Professor, aren’t you going back with the caravan—?”

“Too slow. I’minthemoodtorun.”

Perorn’s hooves shot forwards. She zipped forwards, surprising Umina. The revelers turned and stared as Fleethoof galloped past them, from standing to faster than a Human could sprint in a moment. Luan stared.

“Who was that?”

“That was Fleethoof. One of our Professors. Almost as famous as Tulm the Mithril.”

Marian informed him archly. Luan stared at her. He blinked a few times.

“I’ve got to ask more questions.”

“And you have to meet our class! They’ll want to hear all about your [Doctor]. And I want to know more about your rowing! And how you beat the Iron Vanguard into the harbor!”

Umina pointed back towards the plaza. Luan nodded amiably. He grinned.

“I could use some drinks. And more food. But just one more thing before that. Venaz.”

He turned to the Minotaur. Venaz blinked at him.

“Yes?”

“Give me my money.”



——



Out of Daquin. Like lightning. The owl that had carried Niers back towards his home had nothing on the blur that raced down the streets, around people, jumping over wagons, as fast as any Courier. Students, civilians, and [Mages] looked up and stared. Some cried out her name in surprise. But by the time their words were echoing, she was gone.

Fleethoof. She raced down the trade road, weaving around other travellers on the road. Her four legs galloped, and the ground melted away in front of her. Perorn ran with the humid wind on her face as the sun set. And she felt alive.

She was indeed running back. Her leg hurt, but something, perhaps a meeting beforehand, had caused Perorn to forget all about her pain. It blossomed fiercely in her chest, beating right next to her heart.

Hope.

On a warship heading north across the coastline of Baleros, a silent crew attended to their duties with the exact opposite feeling in their guts. They were the Iron Vanguard. The might of a Great Company. More powerful than any one nation. And yet, they moved in almost complete silence. Nursing bruises, minor cuts, and worst of all, injured egos.

They had lost. But far more egregious, far more terrifying, was the fact that he had lost. Their leader. You couldn’t have gotten a laugh out of the crew with a Level 40 [Jester]. As they sailed through the beginning night, a Dullahan bearing a precious cargo headed above decks from the ship’s hold.

He was carrying a head. And it wasn’t his own. This head was far larger, and it still wore the helmet, the armor identical to his body. Xol, the War Walker, patiently waited as the Dullahan porting him carried him up the steps and onto the deck. The crew of Dullahans all paused to bow to him, those that weren’t immediately busy. He acknowledged them briefly as he passed, but the dour mood had infected him as well. His bearer took him towards the ship’s cabin, normally reserved for the [Captain], but now occupied by a much more prestigious guest.

The Dullahan stopped at the door to the cabin. A pair of silent Midnight Shields were standing guard at the door, and their attitude was intense. They were taking the defeat worst of all. The Dullahan gulped, but the Midnight Shield let him knock anyways.

“Strategist. Xol to see you.”

“Enter.”

A crisp voice instantly replied. One of the Dullahans on guard swung the door open, and the Dullahan porter entered. And there he had a surprise.

Because inside the cabin wasn’t doom, gloom, or even sulkiness. In fact, the person standing inside the cabin, his armor gleaming, was quite calmly feeding himself dinner while his head rested on the table. The Dullahan porter paused, surprised.

He didn’t look upset. And, strangest of all, he wasn’t. As the Dullahan carried Xol’s head into the cabin on a pillow, Tulm the Mithril glanced to his right at an orb he was speaking into.

“Xol has arrived, Seer. Your pardons, Xol, I was finishing my meal as I spoke. May I offer you refreshment?”

“It would be welcomed.”

Xol replied politely. As was customary among the Dullahans, the status of the two had already been decided the moment Xol entered the room. And despite the War Walker’s age and status as a titan among Dullahans, Tulm was still the superior. Now the two heads rested together on little cushions, talking together as Dullahans did in a little circle of heads, leaving their bodies free to act autonomously.

In this case, Tulm’s body was feeding himself, and very quickly a Dullahan [Server] entered the room and began to serve Xol food. Headless, of course; it wouldn’t do for someone to join the conversation. Especially because the attitude was very informal, as befitted old friends. If someone else joined the conversation, everything would have to be very formal. Especially given who was listening from the scrying orb.

“A light wine, then. And to eat?”

“Mm. I will have the catch of the day, whatever that may be, with a pasta sprinkled with the oregano sauce. Hold the addition of salt and provide me with a lemon for the fish.”

“Noted.”

Tulm delicately wrote the requested dish down and handed it to the headless [Server], who took it and came back with a plate of food and drink during the conversation. The duality of heads and headless would have bothered another species, but Tulm and Xol barely broke stride. Tulm instantly turned back to the scrying orb.

“As I was saying. The defeat was close, and avoidable. If I had prepared more fully, it might have been reversed despite the intrusion of House Kallinad’s reinforcement. As it is, I can only offer my regrets, Seer.”

Xol held his breath. Tulm was apologetic, but there was little actual regret in his tone. Certainly not the humiliation or pain the rest of the crew was feeling, Xol included. There was a rumble from the orb.

“DO NOT REGRET IT, TULM. I QUITE ENJOYED IT.”

The voice rumbled throughout the cabin, a low, bass roar that reminded those listening of the thunder of rocks falling down a mountain. It was—well, to call it a shout was wrong because a shout was a certain way of speaking that involved force, effort, the maximal volume lungs could produce. This voice was as loud as any shout, but it was spoken in a conversational, even casual tone.

It was loud. Tulm’s own plate vibrated slightly, and he winced as the liquid in his cup danced, and a bit splattered on the tablecloth. Xol wished he could massage his ears; he’d felt his earwax vibrate.

“Seer, may I regretfully request that you lower your tone? Our confine is enclosed.”

“APOLOGIES. HOW’S THIS?”

The operatic, booming tone lowered slightly in intensity. But not by much. Tulm sighed. Volume control was among the Seer of Steel’s few weaknesses. He tried to adjust the scrying orb’s volume instead, and the volume did indeed reduce. But the size of the voice couldn’t be changed so easily.

“I have a few small victories to share. Among them was my ability to use my appraisal Skill on all of the students and a number of the Forgotten Wing officers during the game. I have had a [Scribe] write down their rough levels and Skills. The information will help us if we come across them in the field or in hiring. A small compensation.”

He indicated a sheaf of papers. The voice in the orb rumbled.

“USEFUL. BUT A LOSS IS A LOSS. I SHARE YOUR DISAPPOINTMENT, TULM. HOWEVER, IT WAS A GAMBLE.”

“Yes.”

Tulm calmly fed himself more of his dish, a lasagna-type meal neatly arranged and cut into pieces. Xol stared from Tulm to the orb.

“Pardon me, Mithril. Seer. But the crew and I were under the impression this was our battle to lose. Morale is low.”

Tulm glanced up and nodded.

“As it should be. However, Xol, I regard this loss as partially inevitable. The Titan invited me to this game. I came with every advantage I could reasonably take, including yourself.”

“And I was unable to grant you victory. It was my weakness, Mithril.”

“WAS IT? I THINK OTHERWISE. AS DOES TULM.”

Tulm nodded.

“To play the Titan’s game is to invite defeat. The only question was whether he intended us to play or not. I decided to take the risk. And I lost. I am ashamed. But not surprised. My teacher is insurmountable in his ability to play mind games. If I dragged him onto the battlefield, I would be more sure of victory. But this game?”

He shrugged. Xol stared at Tulm.

“Then, Mithril, if I may ask. Why take the risk? Why invite humiliation to the Iron Vanguard, however great or small it may be?”

“BECAUSE OF WHAT WAS OFFERED.”

The Seer’s voice made the cutlery rattle. Tulm nodded briefly. He looked up at Xol.

“A question.”

Xol’s brow wrinkled.

“I thought it was the prize from his armory. A gift worthy of the Seer of Steel. What question could the Titan answer that the Seer of Steel could not?”

He looked respectfully at the orb. There was a rumble, not so much words, but noise. Tulm put down his fork.

“Only one that matters. It is not your concern, Xol. Yet.”

That was a polite way of saying that Xol wasn’t important enough to know. Which told the War Walker exactly how important the question must be. He looked at Tulm’s head, and the Dullahan closed his eyes. When he opened them, his silver gaze met Xol’s steadily.

“If I had won, I would have considered it worth the cost even if we had left four out of the six warships and their crews at the bottom of the harbor. And, as much as it pains me, even you, Xol.”

Xol inhaled sharply. He hadn’t taken offense; why would he? But it was the magnitude of what Tulm suggested that gripped his heart below decks.

“Then why did we not deploy a dozen warships? Bring in as much of an army as possible?”

The Mithril smiled ruefully.

“I’m sure the Titan would have countered that. He already broadcast his game to the world. I brought what I could, Xol. I employed any number of tactics. And still I failed. His student, Wil Kallinad, was impressive. As were some of the others. I regret my defeat. But it was worth the risk.”

The three fell silent. And after a moment, the Seer of Steel spoke.

“INDEED. BUT WHAT WOULD MOTIVATE THE TITAN TO PLAY A GAME OF SUCH RISK WITH LITTLE REWARD?”

Tulm frowned. Now that was the question, wasn’t it? He stared at his empty plate. And then, to Xol’s surprise, he chuckled. And then laughed. It was a short laugh, but it was a laugh. Only in this unguarded room did it come out. Xol stared at Tulm. The younger Dullahan looked up. And then he addressed the orb, as was proper.

“My apologies, Seer. Xol. But I recalled something the Professor once said to me. He told me once that he’d burn down a forest to win a card game, if the stakes were high enough.”

“Ah.”

Xol exhaled softly. It was a phrase he’d expect from the Titan of Baleros.

“Then the only question is, was what the Titan sought worth the risk?”

The War Walker glanced at Tulm, looking for answers. But the Dullahan just frowned, pondering. No one spoke for a while. At last, the Seer of Steel’s voice vibrated through the room.

“TULM. UNCOVER THAT ANSWER IF YOU WILL. I WILL AWAIT YOU IN PERSON. IF THE TITAN WILL NOT ANSWER BY GAMES, THE ANSWER MUST BE FOUND ANOTHER WAY. IF THE QUESTION IS NOT FRUITLESS IN ITSELF.”

Tulm raised his head and nodded. Slowly, he fastened the head onto his shoulders and looked at the scrying orb.

“And if it is a question worth answering?”

“THEN IT IS WORTH ALMOST ANY COST. PAY IT.”

Tulm the Mithril nodded, and Xol did likewise. That was all that needed to be said. The figure in the scrying orb turned.

“XOL.”

“Seer.”

The image winked out. Tulm sat back and rubbed at one ear. Xol envied him.

“So this is a defeat for the Iron Vanguard.”

“A setback. A defeat would see far more ships burned and our officers downed, if the Professor had willed it. Xol, I thank you for your efforts. You have leave to rest. Unless you have anything else to bring before me?”

“I do, Mithril.”

Tulm glanced at Xol’s head, surprised. It was rare for the War Walker to request anything.

“Speak.”

“I request to allocate forty, no, sixty gold coins from my funds. And to request connection with the central Adventuring Guild in any major city.”

“Easy enough. I will conduct both affairs now.”

Tulm reached for the scrying orb. He spoke into it, and after a few instructions to the [Mage] controlling it, and a slight pause, an image appeared in the orb. A very nervous, very widely smiling Lizardman appeared.

“My—my goodness! Tulm the Mithril and Xol of Ingrilt? How can Zevai’s Adventuring Guild assist my honored guests today?”

“The smallest of things.”

Xol spoke politely and carefully, aware of Tulm’s curious eyes on him. He was embarrassed to even bring it up in front of his commanding officer, but there was no time like now, in case he forgot.

“I would like to put a bounty up. On one Luan the City Runner.”

Tulm glanced at Xol. The Lizardman blinked only once, and then nodded rapidly.

“Of course, of course! Anything for the Iron Vanguard—”

“No. This is a personal bounty. Please register it as such.”

The Lizardfolk instantly scribbled a note. He was sweating; he didn’t want to make a mistake.

“Naturally. I have made the note. Um, Sir Xol, may I ask a few questions about the nature of the bounty?”

“Yes.”

“Ah. Well then. For helpfulness’ sake, may I ask if this is a lethal or nonlethal bounty?”

“Nonlethal.”

“Oh! Nonlethal, excellent, excellent. We have a wide selection of options if you have any preferences. We offer maiming, permanent disfigurement, loss of an eye, branding—that’s extra—minor humiliation, property damage, superficial beatings—”

“No permanent damage. Superficial beatings. And did you say property damage?”

“Yes, of course! We can put in a request for burned houses, financial damage, theft—I know this isn’t how other continent’s guilds do their jobs, but we aim to please, and if you have any specific items in mind…”

“He has a boat. Destroy the boat. But don’t harm him. That’s all.”

“I have made a note. And I will place the bounty up at once! Ah—”

“The Iron Vanguard will send the payment directly.”

Tulm spoke up for the first time. The Lizardman jumped.

“Of course! And if you have any more needs, please don’t hesitate to—”

The connection faded. Tulm sat back and regarded Xol. The Mithril looked amused.

“A small thing, Xol? Did the City Runner cause you some form of insult?”

The War Walker frowned mildly.

“Some things should be dealt with. There is fairness, and there is justice. I did not appreciate the risk to the children.”

“I see. It is your decision.”

“Yes.”

The two sat in silence for another minute. Xol sighed. His pride still hurt, even hearing Tulm’s reasoning. The Mithril glanced at him, and then out the porthole at the sea. The ship’s lights illuminated the dark waters, but the horizon was vast and the sea endless. The Iron Vanguard’s navy, first and foremost among the Four Great Companies—no, the only naval power of the four, was a small thing compared to the vastness of the ocean.

“It was just a game, Xol.”

“Yes. And I wonder who really won?”

Tulm the Mithril looked up. His eyes flashed. He wondered the same question. For after all, as sanguine as he appeared, he had lost. He sat with Xol, thinking about the Titan, wondering what game his former mentor was playing.

They called him the second-greatest [Strategist] of Baleros. The second of the Iron Vanguard. Second in many things. And they told stories about him. Many of the stories were fake. The rest were exaggerated. But there was one thing no one knew. Tulm’s class. A class only he, the Seer of Steel, and Niers Astoragon knew he possessed. Perhaps Foliana too, but you could never tell what she knew. Or if she cared. But it was his class, and it was a class to shake the world.

[Dragonslayer Strategist].

Sometimes, the legends were true.



——



So Fleethoof ran, Tulm the Mithril sailed away, and his students laughed and partied. Victors, each in their own way. Daquin became a name on every lip until it was not. And for a day, the world revolved around him.

The Titan of Baleros flew through the night, back towards the academy. The owl holding him was swift, and he was nearly back home. Still, he resented the trip; he realized that Perorn would only have arrived a little bit behind him if she was going all-out. Speed was a relative thing, sometimes.

Even so, the Titan was in a good mood. He hummed to himself as Elvallian’s spires came into view and the welcoming lights of his academy appeared before him.

They were coming to see him. All thanks to Venaz, a few lucky moments, and of course, a game that had pulled in every eye across the world. And they all wondered and speculated what his purpose was.

And they were right to wonder. Right to suspect. But the truth was that it was all a feint. The game. Tulm. Even Niers’ question and his gift to Umina, which he’d have to come up with. Oh, he always had his game. And he always liked it to be fun. But this time, it had all been to arrange one meeting. Such a casual one that while everyone stared at Niers’ grand plots and designs, they missed the little trick, the moment hiding amid the grandeur.

Niers laughed to himself. He’d nearly started a war to arrange a meeting. Good thing Tulm hadn’t won. Anyways.

That was what you called a proper distraction.





6.25


I am dreaming. Dreaming of a small child following me with wide eyes. Her fur is forest brown, and she sniffs as she pads along behind me. She makes no sounds, but she trusts me. As I descend into the crevasse and reach for her, she trusts me. As the Goblin takes my fingers, she clings to me. Even later, I think, she trusts me.

Me, the one who brought doom to her tribe. Who awakened the Necromancer’s wrath. If you trace my path, you can see the bodies of everyone I’ve ever met. The Horns of Hammerad. Periss and her soldiers. The Stone Spears tribe. Brunkr. Ulrien. Zel Shivertail. Valceif Godfrey. They meet me and die.

Even Ivolethe.

But Mrsha? I left her behind. I left everyone behind.

I ran away. I left her and ran. I should have never met her.

I shouldn’t have ever taken Teriarch’s request.

I should never have come here.

I should never have been—

And then I wake up. I sit up in bed and clutch at the sheets. I smell sawdust. I can hear someone thumping around beneath me, hear a voice, a crash of wood. For a second, I want to curl up. Or jump up and hit something.

Then I feel the wind on my face. I see a tiny figurine, carved of ice, sitting by my bed on the dresser. I reach for it and feel it. Cold and painful. And I remember.

I’ve felt this way before, so I take a deep breath. Once, twice. You’ve been here before. Calm down. In this moment, I hate myself. I hate everything and everyone, except perhaps Mrsha. But I hate and I despair and I know I’m feeling this way.

It’s happened before. And because I can remember it, because I can learn, I won’t make the same mistakes again.

Or, at least, I’ll try.



——



It took a few minutes for Ryoka Griffin to come back into her own head. A few minutes before the bleak, utter weight in her stomach evaporated enough for her to recover. Then she sighed, let go of the icy figurine she’d picked up, and looked around.

“It’s going to be a bad day.”

The young woman sat up in her bed, tossing some of the thick, itchy sheets off her. It was dark. Nighttime, in fact. Outside, the wind rattled the shutters, but Ryoka could tell that, while the sky was lightening, it was still far from dawn.

“Bad dreams.”

That was all she said. But it wasn’t just a bad dream. She felt it on her, that heavy, apathetic, and wretched feeling. It was already a bad day. Sometimes they came about. Days when she wanted to do nothing more than distract herself. Watch the most mind-numbing show. Steal a drink. Punch something.

Go for a run. And on these days, she would run like fire, until everything hurt. But you couldn’t outrun your own head. So today, Ryoka just sat up. She listened to the thumping and banging from below and realized those sounds weren’t in her head. So she got up, grabbed her belt and the pouches, and trotted towards the door as she tied them around her waist.

Slowly, carefully, the Asian girl opened the door to her room, creaking it open bit by bit. Her hand was on one of the alchemist weapons at her belt. She was listening, but the crashing about seemed to still be coming from downstairs, so Ryoka put one foot out the door. The hallway’s doors were closed. Dark shadows filled the corridor. Ryoka glanced towards the steps leading downstairs. She hesitated. Memory pricked her tired mind. And then someone spoke.

“Don’t go downstairs.”

Ryoka jerked back, heart pounding in her chest. There was someone in the hallway! The dark shape resolved itself—not into an [Assassin], but into a very real, and very familiar shadow in the doorway opposite hers.

“Alber?”

He nodded. The [Fist Fighter] was similarly undressed, and his bare chest was pale in the moonlight. His pants were long, ragged. And he was lowered, as if ready for a fight. He glanced up at her, and then nodded to the stairwell. The young man’s voice was low.

“He’s at it again. Drunk.”

Ryoka took a second to process that. Then the pieces fit, along with the memory. She whispered back.

“Madain?”

Alber nodded. Ryoka relaxed. But only a tiny bit. Alber held still as she tilted her head. Both of them listened to another crash and a slurred, raging voice. At last, Alber indicated the stairs with a tilt of the head.

“If he comes up the stairs, I’ll shout.”

The Runner girl hesitated, and then nodded.

“Thanks.”

She retreated back into her room and closed the door. But now Ryoka was tense. It wasn’t thieves or a fight, but it was dangerous. She imagined the huge man, Mad Madain, the adventurer-turned-innkeeper, overturning tables. She could hear him swearing, and then a muffled shout. The words were indistinct, but they made Ryoka’s heart jump in alarm. She was tensed, imagining what would happen if she or Alber had to stop the man.

Time ticked by, agonizingly slow, and then flashing by in a blink. Eventually the violence below subsided. Ryoka lay in her bed, too awake to go back to sleep. She yawned as she relaxed a bit, but knew her sleep wouldn’t come back so easily. Ryoka lay back, staring at the ceiling and felt amiably miserable for a while.

Eventually, she drifted off to sleep, but it was a half-sleep, a dozing, waking, not-at-all sleep that passed by the hours until morning, but left her feeling tired and groggy. Ryoka Griffin got up, dressed herself, and walked out her door, all the while feeling empty, tired, and quietly, desperately sad underneath it all. That was how she started her day.

It was a good thing she was used to it.



——



Alber got up after a few hours had passed since the last sounds from the inn’s common room had died out. He hadn’t slept since then. There was no point, since you couldn’t tell when the Madman’s tantrums would last. Or how dangerous they would get. He’d kept his word and stood sentry at the door until the worst had seemed to pass. But you never knew.

The [Fist Fighter] was a young man. His name was Alber, and that was more information than most people needed to know about him. He earned a living by taking fights. If people knocked him down, they earned money. If he stayed up or knocked them down, he earned money. Alber loved the simplicity of it.

Silver for normal folk, gold for adventurers and experts. That was how he did it when he was in a a new city. He’d adjust his rate if he felt like he was losing too much against local fighters. Or conversely, doing too well and needed to drum up more business.

Generally, though, Alber could pull in good money by beating passing travellers or the local toughs who thought they could win because they had a Skill or two, and the adventurers and other sorts kept him honest. They were the challenge. Sometimes, Alber beat even Gold-rank adventurers who relied too much on their artifacts and walked away with a full purse. Other times, he woke up on the ground with a broken nose or ribs.

It hurt. Sometimes, it was agonizing. But it was what he knew, and he liked it. It was his life. That was why anything that intruded on that cycle was unwelcome, especially the Madman. Alber had faced the inn’s owner once. That was enough. The Madman, or Mad Madain, or just ‘Madain’ if you wanted his real name, deserved Alber’s nickname. He was crazy. But he was strong. Alber could have taken him down if the man were drunk enough. But it wasn’t a fight the young man would have relished.

Alber scowled as he opened the door. It was early; he was tired, cold, and hungry. But there would be no food after the Madman’s fits of rage, so Alber would have to find food elsewhere. As for the cold, he’d pick somewhere in the sun to ply his trade. He exited his room, the leather gloves slung carefully over one shoulder, and found that the Braggart was leaving her room at almost the exact same time. She turned and blinked at him as she locked her door.

“Morning.”

The Braggart smiled. She looked as weary as Alber, but she was smiling. She’d begun greeting him every morning. Alber almost resented that, but he ducked his head.

“Morning.”

She nodded, and down the stairs they went. The Braggart was dressed, unlike the times she’d come to her door, half-naked. She had a fit figure and was tall, unlike most of the girls Alber had ever met. More like an adventurer than a Runner, really, although she fit both bills. He remembered the sight of her half-naked form in the night and was glad she was walking in front. She did look strong. Maybe she could throw a punch.

But she was still the Braggart. Alber knew her real name was Ryoka Something, but he didn’t bother with names when nicknames served. He didn’t stay long enough anywhere to bother remembering, and for this girl, Braggart fit. She was arrogant. He had thought of her as just the Drathian before, but he vividly recalled the one conversation they’d had a full week ago when she’d claimed to know more of fist fighting than he did. Hence the name change.

Still, she was better company than the Madman, if only because she was usually quiet. Speaking of which…Alber paused as he descended the stairs with the Braggart and entered the common room.

It was destroyed. Alber had seen bar fights, tavern brawls, and participated in a few himself, although he didn’t drink that much. But he was still impressed; the Madman had smashed enough chairs, tables, and ceramics all by himself to leave only a fraction of the room intact. And—Alber’s stomach clenched—he was still there.

Unfortunately, the Madman hadn’t slumped off to his room to pass out there, or even fallen asleep in the kitchen. He was still awake. The huge bear of a man was sitting at one of the good tables, staring blankly ahead. His eyes were bloodshot, his beard and tunic stained. He didn’t look like he was ready for more fighting, but you never knew. Alber watched him for a second, and then noticed that the Madman was sitting next to someone.

A slight, shorter girl. She had black hair, very pale skin, and was dressed in a number of layers in dark clothing. She even had a hat on, inside, and if she could have huddled more into her clothes, Alber thought she would have. Cougher was eating from a bowl of stew, the exact twin of the bowl Alber had eaten for dinner last night. Gristle and fat stew, heavy on the meat and spice and little else. The Madman’s specialty dish.

“Fierre.”

Braggart greeted the slight girl after a quick glance at the Madman. He jerked as Cougher put down her spoon. Her bowl was nearly empty. The Madman looked up.

“You two. Where’s my rent?”

Both Runner and [Fist Fighter] blinked. After a second, Alber grimaced and dug at his belt. So that was the score today, was it? The Madman had done so much damage he needed more coin. Or he wanted a drink.

“Here.”

He placed a silver coin and two bronze ones on the table in front of the Madman. The City Runner fumbled for her purse and did likewise. The Madman glared at Alber and the Braggart. He swiped the coins from the table.

“Bad night?”

The Braggart looked at the Madman, and Alber could have sworn her tone was sympathetic. Which was stupid; the Madman didn’t want or deserve sympathy. Sure enough, he spat as he glared at her.

“Mind your own business, Wind Runner.”

Ah, that was the other name for her. Alber felt the wind blow on his tunic from an open window. Wind Runner. It was true. He’d taken to closing the shutters each night because the wind did blow harder when she was around. The Braggart looked undeterred by the Madman’s comment.

“Just asking. Hey, is there breakfast…?”

The Madman twisted to stare at Cougher. She put down her bowl quietly. The little click of wood on wood made his eyes bulge, and he snarled.

“No. Get out. All of you!”

They did. Quickly too; the Madman looked ready for more smashing. Alber left the inn, mentally calculating how many days he’d prepaid in advance. If the Madman asked again…was it really worth staying at his inn? Well, the rent was dirt-cheap, the food was free when it was available, and the Madman didn’t turn his nose up when Alber walked in beat up or bloody. He did laugh, but Alber could ignore that.

Just a waste of a man. The [Fist Fighter] sighed and began walking down the street. He’d get something hot, and then find a place to knock down a few hungover drunks in honor of the Madman keeping him up. And then? Hopefully there would be new faces coming into Reizmelt he could make money off of. Otherwise, it would be those who hadn’t tried themselves against him. Another week or two and he’d have to travel south to find more business.

And that was all Alber thought on his day. He walked out of the inn and saw the Braggart stop in the street. Her feet were, of course, bare, and the wind swirled around her as she brushed at her hair with her right hand. Alber noticed her two missing fingers and wondered again how she’d lost them. But it wasn’t his business, so he’d never have asked. The one thing he liked about the inn, about the Madman’s domain, was that no one bothered anyone here. Except for good mornings. And—

“Ryoka. How’d you sleep last night?”

“Pretty good. Except for the crashing about. After that, things took a turn for the worse. How’d you get your bowl of soup without Madain killing you?”

The Cougher smiled. Alber paused as he took his gloves off his shoulder and pretended to check them.

“I’ve known him for a while. You do look tired. Want to get something to eat? I know a spot that’s open.”

“Sounds good. Unless you need to be at work?”

“Not me. And I could use something else to eat.”

“Lead on, then. Hey, how often does he do that…?”

The two strolled off down the street. Alber turned his head to follow them for a second, frowning. That was the sixth day in a row they’d shared a meal together.

“When did they become friends?”

The [Fist Fighter] unconsciously flexed his hands, shaking his head. Girls. What could they possibly have in common? Then he trotted off to get some food. They had nothing to do with him, after all. He had a job to do.

He liked it.



——



Fierre the Vampire noticed Alber going as she led Ryoka down the street. The Human girl was yawning. Fierre was not. She’d gotten six hours of sleep, and that was all she needed. By contrast, Ryoka looked as weary as Fierre had ever seen her.

Granted, she had only known Ryoka for a few weeks, and only seriously watched her this last one, but it was a noticeable difference. Normally Ryoka’s heart would be pounding faster as she warmed up for the morning. Now, her pulse was slow. Sedentary. Fierre could see the City Runner also had messy hair.

“You didn’t get any sleep at all, did you?”

“Some. Like I said, it was a bad night. Not just because of Madain.”

Fierre nodded.

“Was that the first time you’ve seen that?”

“Hm? No. I saw it once before. He does that every other week, then?”

Fierre cast her gaze upwards towards the brim of her hat. She tugged it a bit lower with a cloth-wrapped hand. The sun’s rays were yet weak, but they still felt unpleasant on her skin.

“Nearabouts. Sometimes he has a dry spell, but he always has a fit like this at least once a month. He’ll go around smashing things, fighting with his friends—if they haven’t left already by that point—and cursing until he passes out.”

Ryoka frowned. She shifted her feet, stepping lightly on the cold paving stones in the morning. Fierre glanced about the street; she saw a woman fifteen feet away rubbing her fingers together and blowing on them with the spring chill. Fierre could see a little embroidered flower on the gloves the woman took out as clear as if she were standing right next to the woman.

Ryoka groaned as someone threw open their shutters above them. Both Fierre and Ryoka stepped back fast; the chamber pot emptied over the side, and Ryoka cursed up at the window.

“Use the toilet! That’s why you have sewers!”

The man in the window stared down. About to hurl down an insult, he paused when he recognized Ryoka.

“Up yours, Wind Runner!”

“Don’t make me blow that in your face!”

Ryoka glared. The man snorted, realized she was serious, and closed his windows hurriedly. Ryoka sighed. She skirted the splash on the road as Fierre hurried around her. The Vampire wished Ryoka had made good on her threat; she could smell blood in the piss and stool very clearly. Being hungry and disgusted wasn’t a fun feeling.

“And his neighbors don’t stop him?”

“What?”

Fierre glanced at Ryoka and then remembered their conversation. The Vampire opened her mouth, realized her canines were showing, began to cover her mouth, and then relaxed. She gave Ryoka a toothy grin instead and saw the young woman’s eyes lock onto her teeth.

“How? They complain, of course, but the City Watch isn’t interested in trying to stop him. Sometimes they slap a fine on Madain, but he’s generally ignored.”

“Poor neighbors. Well, I know how he feels.”

“Who? Madain? Turn left here. There’s a [Baker] down this street.”

“Good choice. Does she do anything with vegetables? I need something green after eating another meat stew. I know you’re fine, but I need plants.”

Fierre grinned again, then covered her mouth when she noticed a [Laborer] exiting his house, his jerkin twisted.

“She does a very nice spinach-and-cheese puffed pastry. And I eat plenty of green things, thanks.”

“Frogs?”

Ryoka grunted as Fierre leaned over and shoved her lightly. The push was light, but Fierre had used her full strength, so Ryoka skipped a few steps before she caught her balance. She looked over at Fierre with raised eyebrows. The Vampire smiled, a thrill rushing through her stomach.

“Don’t insult me. I told you once.”

“So noted. Sorry. I am in a bad mood. It’s one of those days, you know?”

Fierre eyed Ryoka. She didn’t know. Moreover, she’d expected Ryoka to bite back, as it were. Embarrassed now, she pointed.

“This is the shop. Miss Helma?”

The [Baker] had an open front to her shop, a window and a counter, from which delicious aromas wafted forth. Ryoka eyed a basket of bread and instantly dug for her purse. Helma, whom Fierre knew from her [Laborer] job, came to the window at once.

“Fierre? And who’s your friend?”

“This is Ryoka Griffin, Miss Helma. The Wind Runner. We’re both here because Madain’s had one of his nights.”

Fierre spoke more carefully to the [Baker], keeping her lips closed and not showing her teeth where possible. Helma, a woman with a surprisingly sultry voice given her age, propped her hands on her hips. Dusty; she was baking, Fierre could tell from the heat emanating from the inside.

“That man is trouble. I’ve told you again and again, Fierre. You should find somewhere else to sleep! I’d take you in myself if I didn’t have children running about and my husband wasn’t coming in at odd hours. And—the Wind Runner? So you’re the young lady my children can’t stop talking about!”

Ryoka ducked her head, smiling ruefully.

“Hello, Miss. I’m nothing special. I just have a way with the wind.”

Helma laughed pleasantly.

“Could you conjure me a breeze, then? It’s hot in here, never mind the spring day. I dread the summer. But what can I do for you two? I have some pies, tarts, fresh bread, and if you wait, I’ll fill one with some fruit paste. That’s a treat my children love.”

Ryoka looked longingly at the breads on display.

“I heard you had spinach and cheese pasties.”

“Of course! Fresh! How many would you like?”

The tarts were still hot and pleasingly plump. Ryoka bought six and one meat pasty. Fierre was less hungry and bought some cheesy bread, which she liked. The two walked down the street, holding their hot food while Ryoka offered Fierre two of her vegetarian pasties for a bite of Fierre’s bread. The hot food filled their stomachs, and before long, both were smiling.

“That’s better. Hey, Fierre. How bad does Madain get? Alber was suggesting he might come up the stairs and start taking swings at us. Should I be sleeping with one eye open?”

The City Runner let the wind pick up the crumbs she was dropping. A breeze was now blowing down the street, a nice cool one that passed right by Helma’s shop, Fierre noticed. The Vampire smiled and raised an eyebrow.

“Sometimes he does. But it never bothers me. Madain likes me, I think. And if you need help, I can handle him.”

It was a boast, but Ryoka didn’t give one of her snippy replies this time. She just smiled, bit into her meat pastry, and nodded.

“That would be welcome. Madain looks like he could snap Alber in half like a twig, barehanded or not. And I’ve seen him throw his axes. Myself, I think I’ll just jump out the window if he comes up the stairs. I think it’s not all his fault, though.”

Fierre paused. She looked at Ryoka quizzically.

“How do you mean? If you mean his friends—they’re not his friends. They only drink with him because he’s good for free alcohol. Once he starts talking about his team and the old days, they get lost fast.”

The young woman grimaced.

“I get that. What I mean is—I think he and I are a bit the same. I feel like we’re kindred spirits. We have good days and bad days, Fierre. Neither of us can help it. Some days it rains and pours, even if the sun’s shining. Sorry, I don’t know how to say it. It’s…a type of sickness. Only it’s all in the head.”

Now Fierre did pause in her tracks. She looked hard at Ryoka and sniffed. Sometimes you could smell if someone had been drinking, or—or anything. Her mother was really good; she could even tell if someone was using something like Smilingsand on an animal. Or other tricks to make them look better at fairs. But Ryoka smelled normal. Fierre’s eyes didn’t tell her the Runner looked any different. Disturbed, Fierre shrugged.

“Madain? He just drinks a lot. And you seem normal to me.”

The crooked smile Ryoka gave her was different. Not like the quick and brilliant grin she’d give at a comment that Fierre had learned to spot, or the relaxed grin of satisfaction. Or the not-a-smile she was so good at. This one was tired. But somehow, it also reminded Fierre of her father’s smile. Ryoka shook her head.

“I have a bad temper. And some days are tough. Don’t think too much into it, Fierre. I know my problems. I feel bad for Madain, that’s all. No one ever told him it’s not all his fault. But you’re right; the drinking probably does a lot of the work, even on a good day.”

“Is that what this is? A bad day?”

“Oh, yes. And I’m being careful today. So I’m warning you in advance, Fierre. If I’m snappish or lash out—”

“You’re anything but. Actually, you’re disturbingly calm.”

Again, Ryoka smiled, and it was bitter.

“I’m trying to not do what I normally do. Believe me, if you gave me a gold coin, I’d go back there and try to kick Madain through his own privy door.”

Fierre thought about reaching for her belt, but the joke was childish. Suddenly, Ryoka felt a lot older. In truth, Fierre was the older one by a number of years. But…the Vampire cleared her throat and averted her gaze, embarrassed.

“I’m not bragging. I could actually take him down if I had to. Especially if he’s drunk. I think.”

“I know you can.”

Fierre felt her cheeks turn red. The heat wasn’t much, but given her cold body, it felt like a hot spot. She turned her head so Ryoka wouldn’t see.

She was so strange. Even more than Fierre’s normal friends had been growing up. Not only had she found Fierre out, she hadn’t flinched even when her mother had used her Gaze on her, and she had all those weird Skills that Fierre had never heard about. And she wasn’t afraid of Fierre for who she was. That was the strangest part of all. And the most welcome.

Sometimes she was combative or challenging. But at other times, times like now, Fierre would say something that was a boast, and Ryoka would just nod. And when she looked at Fierre, the Vampire thought that Ryoka believed every word she was saying. And she still wasn’t afraid of Fierre or filled with envy.

It made Fierre too much at ease around Ryoka. She had to remember the girl was a stranger. Her parents, Bamer, they’d all warned her to stay wary. Stay wary. Fierre bit her lip and changed the subject.

“About those people you wanted me to find…I haven’t gotten any leads. I told you it would take a while, especially with Magnolia Reinhart. And there are waves around her.”

“Oh?”

“Politics. A lot of people want information, so I’m trying not to let them know I want different information than the stuff they’re after.”

“Ah. Well, you have time.”

“I’m still looking. Don’t worry. It just takes a while for information. Uh…will you be doing deliveries? I’m going to spend an hour or two at my brokering job, but then I’m helping lay down a foundation by midday. So…”

Fierre hesitated. More people on the streets. She could smell them, feel the blood pulsing through their veins. Normally it didn’t bother her, but she was feeling more Vampirish than usual. Probably because of all the nighttime exertions. She’d have to have more of the goat’s blood for a midday snack.

“Do you—do you want to go for a run tonight? I’m free. We could race north again. Or you could show me more of those fighting moves.”

Ryoka’s lips quirked up.

“And you can throw me through a tree?”

“That was an accident. Really.”

“You’re too strong. And it would be fun to run. But—”

Ryoka studied the sky, and then shook her head.

“Not today, sorry, Fierre. I think I’ll have a short night of it.”

“Bad day?”

“Exactly. Tomorrow should be good, though. Hey, I’ll see you later, alright? I probably won’t stop by to have my letters opened, though. If I’m not there in thirty minutes, there’s your answer.”

“Alright. Uh—get better soon?”

The City Runner nodded. She took off, jogging down the street while Fierre turned to go to the place where she conducted her information brokering. She paused to stare at Ryoka as she left. Exactly what did she mean? Sickness in the head? Fierre shook her own head, but she watched Ryoka as she left.

She was an enigma. But she knew who Fierre was, and she didn’t flinch, even when Fierre gave Ryoka her best smile. To the Vampire girl, that was as attractive, as fascinating as the sweetest blood. Fierre licked her lips. And then she disappeared into the shadows. She was already getting a tan.



——



You’d never have guessed Ryoka was having a bad day. Well, this time. Before, Ryoka distinctly recalled telling Ceria to go to hell and picking fights with Minotaurs while trying to punch Yvlon’s face in. Or just being unpleasant to be around. Had she punched Erin in the face?

Probably. So this time she watched herself as she entered the Runner’s Guild. Ryoka was bracing herself, because she knew she had more talking to do in this guild than in Celum’s guild, where Garia and Fals had been the only people to speak to her. But, strangely, the instant someone called out her name, Ryoka didn’t feel the instant surge of visceral resentment she normally did.

“Miss Ryoka! Good morning!”

Ryoka turned. A familiar face was at the counter. The [Receptionist] leaned over and smiled. Ryoka smiled back.

“Good morning, Alime. Anyone ask for me? Any emergency calls?”

It was the question she always asked. Alime shook her head.

“No, and no, sorry to say, Miss Ryoka. No one’s requested you by name, and no one’s in need of an emergency Runner. You’re first on my list, aside from the Couriers.”

“Well, that’s fine today.”

It wasn’t as if Ryoka wanted to be the first on call or she enjoyed those emergency runs. It happened more than you thought; someone needed an antidote from a high-level [Alchemist], there was a need for a lightning-fast delivery of gold, or perhaps a spice for a banquet, or…well, some emergencies weren’t really all that. But sometimes adventuring teams got into trouble. And Ryoka had cemented her reputation as the first person to call after the Pithfire Hounds had gotten into trouble.

It had changed a lot around the guild, actually. Some of the Runners waiting for their delivery turned in their seats. A few called out; Ryoka waved a hand. She was walking over to the requests board when another City Runner, dark skinned, short, perhaps even Dwarfish, caught her. He was chewing a lip nervously.

“Griffin. I’ve got a favor to ask. Let me take the delivery to Blaiseford. They’re asking for the fastest runner in the Guild, but I’m plenty fast, and I need the coin. Call it a favor?”

He looked pleadingly at her. Ryoka blinked. Normally the rule was the fastest Runner usually got the contract. One of those rules she’d taken advantage of in Celum. Let’s see. What would she have said back then? ‘My contract, get lost?’ Sounds about right.

This time, Ryoka forced a smile. And it wasn’t forced after a second.

“No problem. Todel, right?”

He nodded, relieved. Ryoka shook her head.

“I’m not looking for a big run just now. And Blaiseford? I did that a week ago. Miserable. Those damn swamps…”

That was all she had, but Todel grinned.

“They are disgusting. And those bugs—gah! But I know a quick route through that usually isn’t submerged even when it rains.”

“Really? Show me that, and you can take all the big runs today.”

He grinned.

“Deal. Thanks!”

He trotted off, relieved. Ryoka walked over to the board, smiling a bit. She came back after a moment to the desk where Alime was working.

“Hey, Alime…”

“No deliveries suit you?”

Alime looked surprised. Ryoka shook her head.

“I’m not in the mood for a long run, or a big one. Can you tell me what quiet deliveries you have? Ones that don’t take me into [Bandit] territory or near monsters.”

This time Alime blinked. Quiet requests were common; it meant Ryoka wanted a safe, quick run that wouldn’t put her in danger so long as she stayed on the main roads and nothing unexpected happened.

“Of course. I have a few. I just never thought I’d hear you ask for it.”

“I’m low-energy today. What’ve you got?”

“Hm…let me plot you a route. How long do you want to run?”

“Uh—six hours? I could do an eight-hour circuit, actually. So long as I can take a break or slow down.”

“I think I can fit you into…”

Alime’s eyes flickered as she ran down a list of entries on the parchment in front of her. Ryoka had no idea how [Receptionists] like Selys did their job, but Alime actually earned her pay. She was plotting a route of deliveries such that Ryoka could earn money and do a loop ending at Reizmelt.

It wasn’t always easy, but the [Receptionists] at the Runner’s Guilds were expected to do just that when asked, as well as memorize all the latest updates on the condition of roads, monsters, things to watch out for…Ryoka had known none of this before now, because she’d never talked to a [Receptionist] other than to collect her delivery or get paid.

“Ah. Okay, I have you doing a bulk-letter delivery to the village of Nonsfru, passing by a farm with a small package for the [Farmer] there, and then you’re heading down a main road, doing two deliveries in the town of Ingli, before you pass by a hut—here—and come back this way. They’ll have a bulk-letter delivery reserved for you as you pass through Enam. Given your speed, it should take you six hours or eight if you’re stopping for longer breaks.”

“That’s perfect.”

Alime nodded. Then she frowned.

“Although…the pay for all the deliveries is low, Ryoka. These are all safe and non-priority. So unless someone’s tipping well, which I doubt, you’ll probably earn…six silver coins and eight bronze for the lot.”

She hesitated. That wasn’t a lot. Especially compared to what Ryoka could earn for the faster, harder jobs. A few bronze coins could buy you a small snack, and ten of them, a silver coin, was a decent amount of money, but enough for a pretty good meal anywhere you went. But six silver coins was low, especially for Ryoka. Even Street Runners could earn more than that pretty easily.

To Alime’s surprise, Ryoka didn’t blink twice at the quoted price.

“Suits me. I just want to run. What am I carrying?”

“Well, here’s the letters we have. Hence the low pay to Nonsfru. And here is a little package. The [Farmer] you want lives at a farm down the road from the village. The farm’s name isn’t listed, but if you take the south road and run for three miles…”

Ryoka Griffin listened to the directions, memorizing them, asking a question about any dangers on the road—a [Highwayman] spotted three days back, bears, nothing dangerous—and then she left with the deliveries tucked away in her bag of holding. Quick and efficient. She didn’t need to fumble with a pack like the Runners without bags of holding, and she didn’t need a map. Alime sighed as she leaned over to her coworker.

“She was so silent when she first came in. I believed all those tales about her getting other Runners injured and stealing jobs. Now? I’m glad she’s about.”

Her coworker, a teenager who was learning the ropes, looked up.

“Do you know why she left Celum, Alime? It’s far from there. And I never heard of a hotshot City Runner who controlled the wind. The kids only started calling her that after she came here.”

Alime nodded, frowning mildly.

“I wonder. She’s not a Courier, but I wouldn’t mind challenging some of the other Runner’s Guilds for better deliveries. She can handle them. And that means more coin and traffic flow through our guild.”

“Don’t we get all the same deliveries depending on who’s closest? We’re all Runner’s Guilds.”

The other [Receptionist] looked puzzled. Alime sighed.

“Not at all. Think about it. Each Guild needs to deliver everything it has, promptly and quickly. Things like bulk letter deliveries can wait a few days. Even a week! But quick deliveries, and priority ones, need to be done when they’re promised. So what happens if a Guild doesn’t have enough good City Runners to meet the demand, especially high-priority deliveries? Emergencies?”

“Oh.”

“Exactly. Bigger cities and bigger Guilds sometimes take contracts from further away because they always have enough Runners. Sometimes we lose contracts to Invrisil. Which means they get more funding and we don’t. So you’d better hope our Wind Runner sticks around.”

“Right. Good thing she’s not like the rumors.”

Alime nodded absently. She stared at the door Ryoka had left through as another mud-splattered Runner walked in, carrying a chicken in a cage and looking very put out.

“Yes. But I did ask Celum’s Guild for a little dossier on her. And she’s different from what they said. She wasn’t when she first came here. But she is now.”

“How so?”

“Well—she hasn’t buried our guild in snow, for one.”

“…Do you mean with a shovel or something?”



——



Nonsfru was a village notable only for the name. And even then, it wasn’t exactly the strangest of names. It was a place you could miss if you sneezed twice while on the run. And it looked ordinary.

Perhaps—perhaps it had an [Emperor] living in one of the houses. Or the small mine that sustained the village was in fact host to a legion of Crelers just waiting to be unleashed by a careless pickaxe. Or all the villagers were werewolves. All these things could be true, but they probably weren’t.

And the farm three miles south of the village was a farm. It had one main cornfield and a smaller, secondary field for a number of crops. But the main thing was corn. Somehow, despite the spring, one harvest was already in bloom. It was definitely a Skill, although the effect was limited, because the field wasn’t that big.

A combine harvester could roll down the entire field in less than a minute. On the other hand, you could probably feed all of Nonsfru with the corn from the field for a good while. And the corn was already ready to be eaten!

And such corn. The corn stalks were sixteen feet high, giants of their kind, and the corn was thick and heavy, and the kernels looked like how you imagined gold looked, not like what it actually was. The green husks were practically begging to be pulled off to expose the prize. Which was coincidentally what had attracted a flock of crows at the moment Ryoka Griffin rang the bell at the fence and waited.

No one came out of the farmhouse just past the field, but the bell had scared off the crows. Ryoka eyed them and the lush field of corn as she waited by the gate. It was a big flock, to feast on an equally ripe field. And the corn!

It was an optical illusion that made the corn seem smaller. The field was actually on a gradient, so the corn looked shorter until you got close. But from above it was a target, and the one scarecrow perched on the small hillock overlooking the field wasn’t scaring the crows off. The straw figure stood on the ground in front of the pole as the birds circled lower, lower—

And then up again, cawing in alarm as Ryoka rang the bell again. She waited, but there was no response, and the crows began circling down. They were very wary, and so was Ryoka. But she had to do a delivery, so she hopped over the gate and ran up to the farmhouse.

“Excuse the intrusion! City Runner! Anyone home? I have a delivery for [Farmer] Lupp!”

Ryoka called out loudly as she approached the farmhouse. She knocked on the front door, tried the back, tried the front again, and then decided the barn was worth a shot. A single cow gave her a long stare as Ryoka approached the open barn doors. She stared back.

“Well, he’s nearby. You don’t leave a door open, right?”

She eyed the cow, who seemed perfectly content to eat hay rather than the lush grass outside. It wasn’t even tethered. The farmer was definitely close by. Had he gone for a stroll?

No. And he was very close. But Ryoka hadn’t spotted him. The Runner ran past him twice as she checked the farmhouse, the barn, and then the road again. Only when she noticed the way the scarecrow wasn’t standing upright did the figure transform from an object into a person. And then she saw him, standing in the field, watching the crows.

“Hey th—”

Ryoka broke off, because the scarecrow imitator was giving her a glare as the crows circled lower and lower. He didn’t move so much as a muscle. As Ryoka stopped, the crows decided there was no threat and finally descended for their corn field feast. And as the first one alighted on a corn stalk, the scarecrow lifted the shortbow he was holding.

Ryoka heard a flitting sound, then a squawk and a thump. One of the bodies dropped from the sky, and the other birds took wing at once, cawing in panic. The archer waved his bow and hand and shouted at them, harrying the crows off his fields. They fled so fast that Ryoka saw several feathers float down as they took wing. She approached slowly; the [Farmer] still had his bow, and he was giving her a long look.

“City Runner, are you? Where’s your seal?”

“Here, sir.”

Carefully, Ryoka dug at her belt and pulled out her seal of identification. The [Farmer] relaxed when she showed it to him. He nodded.

“Let me grab that bird and put this away. Be one second.”

He trotted off, bird in hand. Ryoka saw him disappear into the farmhouse and waited. Half a minute later, the [Farmer] came back.

“You’re Mister Lupp, am I right?”

“That’s me. Lupp. And here’s my farm. Sorry I didn’t call out to you earlier. Didn’t want to spook the birds. Took them long enough to come down.”

The [Farmer] trudged back towards his field. Ryoka walked after him, noting the man’s tanned skin, worn face—he had enough crow’s feet of his own, and he looked as weathered as his field. No overalls for him; he was dressed like a scarecrow, ragged, with bits of straw hanging out of his costume to complete the effect.

“Nice trick with the birds. Was it necessary, though?”

Lupp grunted. He stopped by his field, and Ryoka saw him bend over. He dragged out the real scarecrow and propped it up; it was dressed exactly like Lupp, with a big hat to hide the head.

“Have to put the fear of death into them. Or else what’s the point of scarecrows? It doesn’t matter if I hit one anyways; just shooting will scare them off for a day. But they’ll be back. They always come back.”

He sighed. Ryoka reached out as he tried to hang it up. With a grunt, Lupp tossed the scarecrow onto the perch and secured it with some rope.

“Thanks. It’s first harvest, what with my Skill and all. Plants started blooming before the frost had even melted off the ground. Hardy, my plants. And they grow fast. Have my work cut out taking them all in and replanting by the end of the week.”

“I see that.”

Ryoka eyed the massive corn stalks appreciatively. She had to crane her neck to stare up at the ones towering above her.

“This is an impressive field. But it’s your only one?”

“That’s right. I’m a one-man farm. I supply Nonsfru with corn, and some of the local [Traders]. You saw the village on the way here?”

He didn’t seem in a hurry for Ryoka’s package, and she wasn’t in a hurry to give it to him. She nodded.

“I passed by. But the village has several farms. I saw two, and they’ve got corn growing too. Not ripe, but—I’ve heard that a single farm can feed a city. If you don’t mind me asking, how can you make a living? I’m sure there’s stiff competition. Wouldn’t the big farms drive down prices everywhere?”

Lupp glanced at Ryoka in surprise. She shrugged.

“Sorry. Just a question I have. I’ll be on my way if you’re busy. I do have your delivery.”

She held it up. Lupp blinked at it.

“Ah, no, no. It’s no problem. I’m just surprised a young city girl like you’s asking. Not many folk your age think about how we survive. And to your question—sure, some of us have the Skills to feed a town, or even a city ourselves. But think of it. How many hands need to work on a farm as large as the ones you’re imagining? And aside from the effort of seeding, weeding, and watering, say, three-dozen fields of different crops, fencing it off, plowing it, and so on, what happens when you put that many good plants together?”

Ryoka blinked. Then she cast her eyes towards the sky.

“Animals. Of course.”

The [Farmer] grinned, exposing a missing tooth, but very white teeth.

“And monsters. You think smart crows are bad? Try giant moles. Hungry Mossbears. Corusdeer herds that can burn down any wooden fence—and your house! Farming isn’t easy, even if you’re close to a city. Half of farming is being able to take care of the land you have. Protect it. Time was, a Level 20 [Farmhand] wasn’t worth half as much as a Level 12 [Warrior] willing to stay up with a sword at nights.”

“Really?”

“Oh, not my farm. Well, not often. But pass down a more populated road? Bah. I still have to watch out some nights for hungry travellers passing down my road. Good thing I have a Skill and sleep lightly. Still, idiots run when I shoot an arrow. Monsters don’t.”

“What eats corn?”

“What doesn’t eat corn?”

Ryoka thought for a second. Lupp nodded.

“And we’re growers. You think we have it bad? Try owning lots of livestock around areas with Griffins. You’ll watch the skies every day of your life. Everything likes a good steak. Trolls, [Bandits], damned Goblins…”

He waved a hand in disgust. Ryoka nodded without commenting on the Goblin thing. She didn’t know what she was doing. But she’d been chatty all day. And this was the first [Farmer] besides Wailant she’d talked to. And he seemed bored. She’d jogged all the way here. She was still tired.

“Me, I don’t do big fields. Small ones that grow and harvest multiple times a season, there’s the real beauty. Easy to guard, easy to plant. Best high-quality crops in the area. No magic dust in the soil, no spells. Just a Skill, fertile ground, and hard work. I have a bit of a name around here. People like my corn, and the [Traders]’d give me more coin if I didn’t sell just to the villagers. But I always keep some aside, and they take what they can get. There’s always a want, even if the larders are full in the harvests. Say, where’re you from?”

“Reizmelt.”

He whistled.

“Isn’t that eighteen miles north of here? Bit of a run, even for a City Runner.”

She smiled. The wind blew, and Lupp and Ryoka watched it rustle the field of corn. The swaying stalks were mesmerizing.

“I took it slow.”

“Still, it’s a long run. Here. Try my corn yourself and you can tell I’m not all talk and no stalk. Go on.”

Lupp reached up and plucked the nearest piece of corn from the stalk. Ryoka was about to refuse as politely as she could. Then she caught herself.

“Thanks.”

The corn was heavier than she was used to. A bigger yield, and when she pulled off the husk, she blinked down at the corn. It was huge. It would have driven every genetic food scientist to tears if they saw it. This was a unit of corn. So, mindful of Lupp’s stare, Ryoka raised it to her mouth, and took a bite.

The field was very silent. The cow wandered out as Lupp and Ryoka stood on the edge of his field. Ryoka made very little sound as she chewed, and Lupp just waited. After a few seconds, Ryoka turned the cob and worked her way down it. She chewed, swallowed, bit again, and repeated the cycle. Then she looked up.

“This is delicious.”

The [Farmer] laughed, and his voice crackled like footsteps rustling through hay.

“Good, right? Before I tasted the real thing, I imagined this was what gold tasted like. Well, they’re my golden fields. I may not have as much as the huge farmers, but I sell my crops to folk I know, and they love it. What I keep from the animals, that is. Go on, finish it.”

Ryoka did just that. The corn wasn’t nearly as sweet as some of the stuff she’d had, but it was much more savory and so good that she didn’t mind eating it raw. With that said, if you grilled it, added a bit of butter and salt? But she ate the entire cob there and then, never mind her breakfast already in her stomach.

“Go on and toss it. Helli’ll eat it.”

Lupp indicated his sole cow. Ryoka tossed it, and the cow stared at her before turning her head and nibbling delicately on a piece of grass. Lupp laughed, and Ryoka smiled.

“Thank you. I appreciate that. Your corn’s the best I’ve ever had, and that’s no lie.”

“Ah, thank you, Miss. That’s what a [Farmer] wants to hear after leveling up all his life.”

The man looked proud. Then he noticed the package Ryoka had set aside.

“That mine, is it?”

“Oh. Yes. It’s a delivery from Reizmelt. The sender is, uh…”

“Kamine? She’s my daughter.”

Ryoka nodded. She handed the small, carefully wrapped package to Lupp. The old man took it, and Ryoka saw his wrinkles return. The laugh lines deepened, and his face sagged. For a moment.

“Ah. She’s good about sending packages on the regular. Every month at least.”

He looked happy to have it. But also sad. He hesitated, glanced at Ryoka, and opened it up. Ryoka blinked. The package had been small, hand-sized. It was, in fact, a whittler’s knife, a small knife with a short blade. It had a bit of cork protecting the head from cutting through the wrapping. Lupp looked at it.

“Nice bit of steel. I wrote to her that my old knife’d grown too dull. Hope she didn’t spend too much on it. This—looks good. Level 20 [Blacksmith], at least.”

He ran his hand down the whorled wood handle. Ryoka saw him stare at the handle, and then glance, just once, back at the farmhouse. She wondered what had happened to Kamine’s mother. And she knew she would never, ever ask.

Lupp cleared his throat after a second.

“I have a seal. Let me find it.”

He trudged back up to the farmhouse, and he held the whittler’s knife very carefully as he went in. Ryoka waited for a few minutes this time before Lupp came back out.

“Sorry, sorry. I kept the place more organized when my wife was…around.”

He held out a dusty seal to Ryoka. One that identified his location as Nonsfru, the equivalent of a stamp. Only, Runners received them. Ryoka took the wooden token and tucked it into her belt.

“Thank you, sir.”

“I wish I could give you a tip. I would, but—”

For the first time in the conversation, anxiety stole over Lupp’s face. He flushed, and Ryoka instantly held up a hand.

“No need for a tip, really. This isn’t a hard run. And the corn was good enough for any tip.”

“Still, you came all this way—”

“On a circuit. You weren’t the only delivery, believe me. And I’m not in a hurry. Today’s an off-day for me.”

Lupp relaxed a bit as Ryoka gave him a reassuring smile.

“Eighteen miles is an off-day?”

“For me, it is. But I’m not working hard.”

“Oh. Injury? Or just tired?”

He peered at her bare feet and then stared for the first time.

“What’s happened to your shoes, girl?”

“I run barefoot.”

“You’ll step on a nail! Or have them torn up by rocks.”

“My feet are tough. And if you’ve got nails lying around, I’d watch your feet, boots or not.”

Lupp blinked, and then he conceded with another laugh. He shook his head.

“Eighteen miles. So what’s kept you from your real running, if you don’t mind me asking?”

He glanced at Ryoka. And she hesitated.

Here was the point where she could give him an easy reply, like she was tired, or resting, or even mention the Pithfire Hound’s rescue as an excuse. Anything would work; some answers would prolong the conversation. Only one was the wrong answer as she knew it. But that answer was the most honest. So she gave it, with a shrug. Something about Lupp made her want to be straight with him. And she so seldom was. So she was honest.

“It’s just a bad day. You know? I woke up on the wrong side of the bed. And I guess it’s following me around. My [Innkeeper] had the same moment. Last night, he was tearing up the common room. Me? I just wanted to roll under my bed and stay there. You ever have days like that?”

She waited, her heart beating a touch faster. Fierre had just given her a blank look, but Lupp didn’t. The man blinked at her, and then he glanced around.

“Days when you wake up and the shadows are long? When there’s crows in the fields, but you can’t find the heart to chase them? I know those days.”

Something in Ryoka’s chest eased. And not just because Lupp didn’t look at her as if she were mad. Because, suddenly, they were looking at each other. With far more understanding than two strangers had any right to. All because of an honest moment. Lupp beckoned Ryoka over to a seat on his porch.

“You too?”

He gave her another smile.

“What do you mean, ‘me too’? I should be asking you that. You’re too young for days like that.”

“I don’t think it has anything to do with age.”

“It should. Old folk can have these days. But young ones? That isn’t right. You and the [Innkeeper], huh? Seems like the mood spreads. I wouldn’t know; I keep to myself. I can go a week without seeing more than a few people on the road.”

Ryoka glanced down his hill. The road that passed by his farm was empty. It had been empty all the time they had been talking. She looked at Lupp. She could have left. But instead, she continued the conversation she wasn’t supposed to have, the one she didn’t know you could have with a stranger.

“It’s not that bad today. I’ve had worse days. But—how do you do it? Deal with this kind of day?”

Lupp sat next to Ryoka. He stretched out his legs, groaning softly. Ryoka heard quiet clicks. And the [Farmer]’s voice was quiet as he looked across his land.

“Some nights are bad. Like when there’s rustling outside, and my [Dangersense] is screaming at me to make no noise. Those nights, and the day or days thereafter, I bar the door and hold up with a knife in hand. Healing potion at the belt. If it’s real bad, I send a [Message] spell with a scroll. The worst time was when the team didn’t scare it off. And I found bits of them when I dared open my door.”

Ryoka shook her head. Lupp went on.

“Those are bad days. Terrifying. But the worst are the ones where I wake up like you. And sometimes the days become weeks. Sometimes I don’t know what to do. I think of Suzaine, or an old friend. And those moments are the worst.”

He looked at Ryoka. She nodded. She understood him far too well. Lupp glanced at her. Then down at his hands and up again.

“Used to be, I’d drink too. Like that [Innkeeper] of yours. Drunk as a rat, was he? Thought so. I gave it up—well, I can’t say why exactly. Just grew too miserable. And it didn’t help. In the end, I came up with my own method. When I start staring at the shadows too much, when I stop talking to myself, I get out of the house. Leave the farm.”

He gestured to the gates, the wooden fence around his property.

“Sometimes I go to the road with a basket of corn. Or some bread I baked myself. Or I take a trip into Reizmelt. Other times, I get a letter from my girl, just like today. And I invite the Runner in if they’re the right sort. Never on a bad day. But sometimes I have to talk no matter what—I’m going to market. Or the times I do talk come back and hold it all at bay for a week.”

He smiled quietly.

“It’s all it takes. A friendly hand. Offering someone some corn and watching them smile. Even a good old cursing match with one of those damn [Wagon Drivers] who hit my fences when they’re drunk. It helps. Other times I just have to be alone.”

Ryoka nodded quietly. She watched Lupp’s face.

“I wish I’d done that. Or tried. I had people when I was younger. I just hated them. I wish I’d gone somewhere else. Tried something.”

“It’s easier when you’re out here. You can stay away when you have to. Not that hard. Worse in a city. Can’t imagine being an [Innkeeper]. Sounds like a shit job, so it does.”

“I can agree with that. Although, my best friend’s an [Innkeeper]. And she’s twice as nice as I’ll ever be.”

Lupp laughed.

“The good ones are like that. Although, I knew a devil of an [Innkeeper]. Hated everyone’s guts, but the man brewed the best ale I’ve ever tasted. Hung himself in the center of his inn one day. Used a keg of his latest batch of ale as a stepstool. Took himself out right in the center of the room so you’d see him as you walked in, just like that.”

“Yikes.”

“We found him the next day. Big stink it was, people thinking he was murdered. Turns out he wasn’t. Big stink. But you know what we did in the end?”

Ryoka didn’t have to think. She looked at Lupp.

“You drank the ale.”

“Of course. Were we going to let it go to waste? Best ale I ever had, too.”

He laughed, and Ryoka laughed with him. It wasn’t funny. It was just…funny. The two sat and talked, as if they had known each other for years. At last, Ryoka stood up, embarrassed.

“I have to get running, or I won’t get back before nightfall. Thanks. I didn’t mean to keep you.”

“From what? The corn will keep. And I enjoyed that. Here. Before you go, take some corn with you.”

Ryoka blinked as Lupp walked with her down to the field. He plucked eight ears off and handed them to her. She piled them into her bag of holding.

“You’re sure? These are so good—”

“Go on. Have a few. And boil them or crisp them up when you eat them. Call it a gift from one kindred soul to another. Your tip.”

Abashed, Ryoka ducked her head.

“Thank you. Oh—do you have anything you’d like to send to your daughter? I’ll be going back to Reizmelt. I could bring her some corn.”

Lupp drew in his breath.

“I don’t usually send by way of the Runner’s Guild. How much would it cost? Money’s tight—”

“Free of charge.”

“I can’t do that.”

“Give me four more ears, then. That’s worth silver to me.”

“Not gold?”

The [Farmer] looked pleased, mock upset, and grateful all at once. He cleared his throat a few times.

“I’d—I’d like that. You can get it to Kamine? Really? Could—could you bring her some milk? It shouldn’t spoil too fast, but—”

Ryoka grinned. She turned to face Lupp.

“Sir [Farmer], I’m the Wind Runner. If you want to bake her a pie, I’ll get it to her before it’s cool. Free of charge. Just dare me.”

Lupp blinked at Ryoka. And then he laughed and slapped her on the shoulder. She waited while he milked his cow, found a jug to hold the milk in, and listened to his message. She left the farm as the wind blew. And it did blow, a mighty gust that made the corn bend and rustle in the field. Lupp watched her go.

“Wind Runner?”

He stood on his farm and watched the girl go. Whatever day he might have had before this moment, it was better now. For him. And for her.



——



Back she ran. Well, forwards and back. Ryoka completed the rest of her deliveries and ran faster than before. Not a sprint, but the wind was at her back. Each time she stopped or met someone on the road, she spoke for a little bit. If the client wanted it. If they weren’t busy.

Sometimes, it was a remark on the weather. Other times, it was a comment on the place, or just a greeting. And often, it was responded to with a curt reply, or a nonanswer that went nowhere. But sometimes, twice, her conversation turned into something longer.

The second time occurred on her way back to the city. Ryoka was running down a dirt road, fast. She was headed north, and she passed by a wagon, startling a group of children dozily riding with their parents. They laughed and clapped as Ryoka blew past.

“Wind Runner, Wind Runner! Make a tornado!”

Even twenty miles away from Reizmelt, they knew her. Ryoka turned and the wind blew around her and the children laughed in delight as the mules pulling the wagon stopped in surprise. Ryoka raced past them. Then she heard an exclamation from behind and turned her head. Instead of the wagon, she saw a blur racing towards her.

Green and blue. A mounted shape. An armored warrior riding a horse, standing up in his stirrups. Fast as—Ryoka blinked. Then she turned, prepared to sprint off the road.

“[Knight] errant! No fear, Runner!”

The rider called. Ryoka relaxed slightly, but she kept a hand near her bag of holding. She kept running on the road, and the [Knight] caught up to her in seconds. Instead of passing, he slowed his horse. Ryoka, running at full-tilt, saw him glance down at her.

Was this a challenge? She gritted her teeth and sped up. She was nowhere near as fast as the [Knight], but the wind blew hard on her back. It did not do that for the knight, and Ryoka accelerated a half-step. She kept pace with the [Knight] for a hundred paces, then two hundred. At four hundred, Ryoka felt herself running out of steam, so she slowed rather than force herself to keep going. To her surprise, the [Knight] slowed with her.

“Need something?”

Warily, Ryoka slowed further, panting. The [Knight] drew almost to a standstill with his horse in response. He held up a hand, and Ryoka took him in for the first time.

He was certainly a [Knight], or at least, he looked like one. His chest plate was a gentle green, while his shoulders and legs were a sapphire blue. His insignia was emblazoned on his chest—some kind of wheat stalk of all things. His charger was similarly adorned, and Ryoka saw the man had a sword and spear. Neither one was near his hand as he held it up.

“My apologies, Miss Runner. I mean you no alarm. I was simply impressed with your pace. Not many can keep up that speed, City Runner or not. You might have kept even with a regular horse. I am a [Knight] in service of the order of Clairei Fields. We prize speed above all. I tender you my sincerest compliments for the display.”

“Oh. Uh, thanks. It’s well-taken. Although you’d outrun me in any race.”

The [Knight] tilted his visor up, and Ryoka caught a glimpse of pale indigo eyes. She blinked, but the [Knight]’s voice was calm, conversational even. He didn’t remove his helmet, but it seemed locked into place.

“On horseback, perhaps. But you kept pace at a good clip. And with bare feet, no less! Tell me, is it some feature of your class? It seems dangerous at speed.”

“What? This. It’s just a hobby.”

“A hobby?”

“Yes, well, I do have the, uh, [Barefoot Runner] class. But barefoot running is just a choice I make. I think it feels better, and I can run faster. You see, bare feet help my form. And you don’t actually step on that many rocks. Er…”

Ryoka slowed to a jog as she ran alongside the [Knight]. She gave him a quick pitch for running barefoot, and he listened politely. He nodded after she was done.

“Truly admirable. I’m almost relieved you weren’t a Courier, Miss. Or I’d have had to explain to my order why I was left behind by a barefoot runner.”

The said barefoot runner grinned, and she caught a smile behind the visor. The Clairei Knight rode onwards, and after a moment, tilted his head to Ryoka.

“Miss Runner. I notice the wind has been blowing behind us steadily for the last few minutes. Unusual, but dare I ask—are you the infamous Wind Runner of Reizmelt I’ve heard about?”

“None other. Are people talking about me from that far away?”

Ryoka blinked. The [Knight] dipped his head.

“The children are, if none other! And where children talk, surely their elders at least whisper? I’m honored, again. And perhaps our meeting is fortuitous. You see, I have a delivery tasked upon me by my order. I am to hire a Runner in Reizmelt to bear a gift. And it occurs to me that none other than the Wind Runner would best represent our interests.”

“A gift? I can definitely do that. Is it priority?”

The Clairei Knight halted his horse.

“Not priority. But the circumstances around the request are strict. It is to be delivered tomorrow, just past morning to a precise location. Not far; within the city’s confines, in fact. To a [Lady] of some renown. The delivery is one of ceremony, I understand. My order has sent a number of my brethren and, uh, sisters of the order to carry these gifts from city to city.”

“Why not deliver it yourself?”

The [Knight] sighed.

“I asked my order’s grandmaster the same thing. It appears that this is some matter of politics. Regardless, the fee is quite handsome, and I understand it would fall under a direct request.”

Ryoka’s ears instantly perked up. A direct request? That meant it would be something registered as a personal delivery. Her reputation could only benefit from having one of those under her belt. And free gold?

“If you don’t mind having a barefoot runner do the delivery, I’d be honored, sir. And I can spare you a trip to the guild. I can take your details and log the request when I return to the guild…”

The Clairei Knight brightened up when he heard that.

“That would truly be helpful, Miss Wind Runner. Sparing the effort of selecting a Runner for the delivery and journeying to Reizmelt would mean I could rendezvous with the rest of my order at another city. You would do me a great personal service. On that note, I have been remiss. May I ask your name, fair lady?”

“Ryoka Griffin. And I’m not that fair or much of a lady.”

“A damsel who rescues a [Knight] from distress is as much a lady as one that requires rescuing.”

It was prettily said, so Ryoka smiled and fished out a quill and parchment from her belt pack. She noted the [Knight]’s request, then handed him one of her seals so he could ensure the package was delivered exactly as he wanted and hold her accountable if need be. Not that it was necessary; it was a straightforward delivery at a certain time of day.

“I’ll have the paperwork done the instant I return to Reizmelt, Sir Molte.”

“And that’s it?”

Ryoka nodded. Sir Molte sighed in relief.

“Excellent! My order seldom makes use of City Runners. Since we all have speed Skills, our junior members are often tasked as [Messengers]. I’ve had enough of it, and this after I was denied the right to join Lord Veltras’ army—but I shouldn’t complain. Thanks to you twice over for taking my burden, Miss Griffin! I wish you all the speed the winds grant you!”

He saluted Ryoka and flipped his visor down. She nodded, and he turned his horse. The stallion took off down another road as she watched him go. Ryoka saw the Clairei Knight accelerate until he was a blur, and then disappear. She blinked and stared down at the very slim parcel she’d received from him.

“Don’t open until right before delivery, huh? Wow. I guess this was a coincidence and a half. Good luck for me, though.”

She smiled and kept running. Soon, she returned to Reizmelt. And after delivering some milk and corn to a very surprised daughter, who was a [Shoemaker] of all things, Ryoka successfully avoided buying a pair of shoes and returned to the Huntress’ Haven. There she stopped a while. And thought.



——



The Huntress’ Haven was closed. It had been closed all day, and it continued to be closed, not least because there was no more sitting room. Madain had kicked some of the broken chairs and tables out of the way, but absolutely no attempt at actual cleaning had taken place.

Obviously, dinner was cancelled. But Ryoka still stopped in the inn, and not for her room or to find Fierre. She walked to Madain’s room on the ground floor and knocked once.

“Get lost.”

“Madain. It’s me.”

The door stayed closed. Ryoka fidgeted. At last, the door opened a crack.

“There’s no dinner. Get lost or I will throw you out.”

A bloodshot eye stared at the City Runner. Ryoka tried to smile.

“I know. I thought you’d still be hungover. Here. I brought something to eat.”

She held up an ear of corn. Madain stared at it. Ryoka lifted the basket she was holding in the other arm. Some of Helma’s fresh bread was in the basket too, along with some tarts. Ryoka heard Madain’s stomach grumble.

“What the hell’s this?”

“Food. Look, we don’t have to eat together. It’s just something I thought you could use. I’ve—”

“Fuck off.”

The door slammed shut. Ryoka stopped, mid-sentence. She stared at the door. At her basket.

She’d spent thirty minutes coming up with something to say and buying all the food. Thirty minutes, trying to figure out what she’d say to herself. And he just—

Hot fury swept through Ryoka. For a second, the wind threatened to gale, and she raised a fist, ready to kick the door down and break the damn basket over that ungrateful bastard’s head. Then she caught herself.

“No.”

Carefully, slowly, Ryoka looked around. She found a table, dragged it over, and even tried not to make the wood screech. She placed the basket on top. Ryoka glanced back once at the door and turned to go. She didn’t expect the door to open or Madain to say anything. And he did not.



——



“Fierre, you want to get something to eat?”

Somewhat grumpy, but oddly satisfied, Ryoka found Fierre as she finished her shift. The Vampire had been working as a [Builder] all day, and she was covered in grit. She looked not the least bit tired, despite having hauled heavy bricks and stones about all day. She smiled at Ryoka.

“Sure. Steaks?”

“You can have them. Let’s find somewhere good to eat.”

And so they did. That was all there was to it. Ryoka sat with Fierre, and they talked. Today’s conversation was about [Knight] orders. Fierre didn’t like them. Ryoka thought the Clairei Knight hadn’t been too bad, even if he had been slightly condescending. The Vampire girl didn’t agree.

“They’re all the sons and daughters of the rich. Usually nobility. Sometimes there are commoners, but you can’t trust all of them. It was [Knights] who hunted down my family. Dad hates them. Especially the old houses, like the Byres family. At least they’re just individual [Knights]. Orders are the worst.”

“What’s the difference?”

“Orders train their [Knights] in a system. You can get the class other ways, but an order has specific types of knight. Even special classes. They have…specialties. Clairei Field’s a larger order around here that specializes in speed. Not that they’re that much. Compared to Terandrian [Knights], most of Izril’s are lackluster.”

“How so? Are they under leveled?”

“No…but Terandria has ancient [Knight] orders. And they’re larger, better funded in general—they’re more depended upon. So the Clairei Knights aren’t much of anything compared to, say, the Order of Seasons. Speaking of which, did you see the Titan’s game in Daquin?”

“I heard about it. But I don’t have a scrying orb. Do you have a video?”

“A what? And I do have access to a mirror. We can watch it—I hear it’s amazing. And you can see real [Knights], for what it’s worth. You see, they have actual specialized classes, like their [Summer Knights] or their [Knights of the Summer], I forget which one it is. They have unique abilities and…”

Ryoka watched the game in Daquin. And she was suitably amazed, even caught with the scope of the battle. And worried. By the time she tiptoed into the inn and fumbled her way upstairs into her bed, she was so tired she nearly forgot it had been a bad day. In fact, it even felt okay. Ryoka lay in her bed, staring up at the ceiling.

“I did it.”

She’d gotten through a day without ruining something. Wasn’t that a victory? Ryoka thought about it.

She still felt miserable. But she clung to that thought. She hadn’t made anyone else’s day worse. That was enough. So Ryoka slept. And the next day, she felt better.



——



“Griffin.”

Ryoka looked up as she ate some runny eggs at her table. She glanced around the swept inn, at the few righted tables, Alber eating, Fierre slurping up bloody soup, and then at Madain. The [Innkeeper] still looked hung over, but he had made breakfast. He was even speaking.

“Morning, Madain. Need anything?”

“No. I—”

The big man hesitated. He glared at Ryoka and slapped more eggs onto her plate. She eyed them.

“The damn corn was good. And the other things. Thanks. Don’t bother with it again.”

He turned and stomped off. Ryoka watched him head into the kitchen. And she smiled. It was a small victory. She looked up and saw Alber and Fierre staring at her. Ryoka waved, and both went back to their food.



——



“What was that about? Corn?”

Fierre stared at Ryoka. The City Runner hummed as she left the inn. Alber was already outside, putting on his gloves. He’d come back with a black eye last night.

“Just something I got from a run. I think it worked. Hey, Fierre. I have a big delivery in about twenty minutes.”

“Really? I didn’t hear anything about that.”

The Vampire was instantly curious. Ryoka plucked the thin package out of her bag of holding. Fierre’s eyes locked on it.

“Who gave you that?”

“The Clairei Knight I told you about.”

The Vampire looked excited.

“Really? Then I can definitely open it. I won’t charge you more than—”

“Whoa. I’m not opening this one. I’m delivering it honestly.”

Ryoka forestalled Fierre. The girl was disappointed.

“But if it’s an important gift—”

“He gave it to me, and apparently any City Runner would do. I think it’s ceremonial. And I want to prove I’m good for some deliveries. Especially ones with [Knights]. This is my first personally requested delivery. Ever. So I’m doing it right.”

Ryoka smiled. Fierre sighed.

“Oh, fine. I have enough work anyways. Have fun on your delivery. Where’s it to?”

“Inside the city, believe it or not. To a [Lady].”

Ryoka smiled, even as memory pricked her. Fierre frowned.

“A [Lady]? But Reizmelt doesn’t have a [Lady].”

“Well, she must be passing through.”

“But that might mean—”

Fierre glanced up sharply at Ryoka. Then she clicked her fingers.

“I have to go. I think I have clients.”

She hurried down the street. Ryoka frowned at her and tucked the slim package into her bag of holding. She’d get to see what it was right before she delivered it, anyways. She hummed softly as she strode to the Runner’s Guild.

“Ryoka Griffin!”

Todel strode towards Ryoka the moment she entered. Ryoka turned and gave him a very real and cheerful smile.

“Todel. How were the swamps?”

He clasped hands.

“As nasty as ever. But I earned my coin! I owe you one. And after this, I can buy you at least a round! Fancy a drink later today?”

“It’s not even morning.”

Ryoka glanced out the window. Todel chortled.

“A few drinks won’t kill you. Or a day off, Wind Runner! Listen, it’s all on me. I just got my first personal delivery, and I’m ready to hit the city after I finish it!”

“What, really? Congratulations!”

“Thank you!”

“I got my first delivery as well. I met a [Knight] on the road and he offered me one.”

“What?”

Todel looked delighted. He slapped Ryoka on the back.

“Now that’s luck. Me, I think I was the only City Runner around when whomever it was made the request. That, or my run to Blaiseford really impressed someone. Either way—when’s your delivery?”

“Very soon. You?”

“Soon. But I’m not worried. It’s simple. Let’s have a seat. I’m so nervous—but I got the package tested, and it’s straightforward. Some kind of lover’s token, I think. It’s—”

Ryoka held up a cautioning hand as they took a seat.

“Steady. I don’t want to know, and you need to keep it a secret.”

Todel looked abashed. He ran a hand through his hair.

“Right, right. Sorry. I’m just so—Melodie! Come over!”

Another City Runner that Ryoka had been introduced to recently had just jogged through the doors. She made a beeline straight for Alime’ desk.

“In a moment, Todel! I need to get my delivery. Is it here, Alime?”

“Right here, Melodie. Congratulations.”

“Thank you!”

The girl trotted over towards Ryoka and Todel. She had wild green hair and olive skin. It was apparently all-natural, and the girl was always leaping from spot to spot. She had a jumping Skill that could let her reach the roof of a house with the right run up. She beamed at Todel and Ryoka.

“The Wind Runner! And Todel.”

“You’ll have to come up with a name for me soon, Melodie. Fancy a drink?”

Todel rubbed his hands together as he grinned at both of them. Melodie smiled.

“A bit early, isn’t it? But I’m up for it! And I’ll buy you a round.”

“No, no, it’s on me. I’ve got great news!”

“So do I. Guess what just happened last—”

The doors burst open. A Street Runner that Ryoka knew, a Dullahan of all people, burst into the guild, fastening on his head.

“I’m here! I’m here! I’m not late, am I?”

“Ghalim! What’s—”

Todel’s voice was drowned out by more Runners pouring into the guild. Six City Runners, eight Street Runners, and two other Runners that Ryoka didn’t recognize were hot on the heels of the Dullahan. They came in all at once and swarmed around Alime’s desk, shouting for their packages. Ryoka stared.

“One at a time! I have your packages! One at a time! Line up!”

The [Receptionist] had to shout until the Runners formed a rushed line. She began passing out packages. And Ryoka saw they were all the same size, more or less. The wrappings varied, and some looked…opened. But each Runner took theirs and checked it hurriedly. Some clearly knew what was inside.

“Todel. Miss Ryoka. Melodie. Good to see you all.”

Ghalim approached them, looking pleased as he tucked his package into his armor. Ryoka stared at it. The Dullahan looked smug as he glanced at the three City Runners. He was quick, but he’d been demoted to Street Runner twice for tardiness, Ryoka gathered. Normally he seemed troubled by it, but today he was positively bursting in his armor.

“You’re here early, Ghalim? Have a job already?”

“As a matter of fact, someone asked for me. Me. I’m about to do a personal delivery. How’s that for a morning, eh?”

The Dullahan puffed out his chest. Melodie and Todel looked astonished. Ryoka narrowed her eyes.

“A personal request? Congratulations, Ghalim! Ryoka and I just got ours. Is this some kind of luck or what?”

“Actually, I just got a personal delivery too, Todel. My second one.”

Melodie spoke up. Todel turned to her.

“What? But that’s—”

“Did someone say a personal request? I just got one!”

“Me too!”

The other Runners looked around. Ryoka leaned back as they crowded around the table. She started counting. More Runners were coming into the room. And they all wanted the same thing from Alime. No—three didn’t want anything from her, but they looked like they had their packages already.

“Hold on. Hold on. Does everyone here have a personal delivery they’re doing today?”

Todel had to shout. The Runner’s Guild went quiet. Nearly every Runner in the room raised their hands and nodded. The partly Dwarvish runner looked astonished.

“Is there some kind of huge event we don’t know about?”

“No clue. But I’m being paid well to do my delivery. Speaking of which, it’s nearly time!”

Ghalim pointed at the position of the sun in the sky. A number of other Runners nodded. Ryoka got to her feet. It was indeed time. But suddenly she didn’t feel so good. She looked around.

“Anyone else going on their delivery? Want to run together?”

The other Runners looked at her and nodded. Ryoka glanced at Alime. The [Receptionist] had noticed what Ryoka had. She met the Runner’s gaze, but didn’t stop Ryoka as the young woman jogged outside. And the other Runners followed her.

“I’m not going with you far. It’s just a short trip for me. Good thing too, or I’d be holding you back, eh, Griffin?”

Todel joked as he ran alongside Ryoka. She didn’t immediately reply. She headed down the main street and the others followed her. City Runners. Street Runners. They laughed. Melodie ran faster, next to Ryoka, grinning as the wind blew her hair from behind.

“Thanks for the wind, Ryoka! But we’re going to split at—”

She faltered as Ryoka turned right, off the main street. The other Runners blinked, but some whooped. They poured down the street, surprising the early-morning pedestrians, who stared at the cavalcade of Runners as they followed Ryoka. The girl ran straight. And then she turned left, off this street. The crowd turned with her. And, suddenly, there was a lot less laughter.

“I’m going down this street. You?”

Todel looked at Ryoka. She nodded tightly. The precious package the Clairei Knight had given her was in her hand now. And she saw some of the other Runners taking theirs out.

“Down this street. And then—”

“Left.”

The Runners turned as one. They looked at each other, and their steps slowed. There was only one street they could all be going to now. Gladwell’s Walk, one of the richest districts in Reizmelt. They looked at each other.

“Everyone?”

Melodie looked around disbelievingly. Ryoka just nodded. She tugged off the wrapping of her package, pulled away the delicate paper that had been secured with string. Todel’s eyes widened.

“But that’s—”

Silently, Ryoka looked around. The other Runners of Reizmelt stared at her. She saw the copy of her item in their hands, held delicately to avoid injuring the runners. Ghalim, whose hands were armor, stared at Ryoka.

“Is—is this a joke? But I was paid well. They asked for me by name.”

“Me too. I have a message to deliver.”

“And I—what do we do?”

Todel looked at Ryoka. She glanced at him and the others. They stared at her, the Wind Runner, as if she had the answer. Calmly, belying the tremor in her heart, Ryoka pointed.

“We do our job. Follow me.”

So down the street they came. Over twenty Runners, running in a group. The pedestrians stared. And the Runners came to a stop in front of a large, suburban…it could have been a mansion. Inside of a city. But there was even a lawn.

Ryoka’s heart was beating too fast. Her skin was tingling, and she was shivering. She rang the bell at the gate and saw the doors open. The [Butler] stared as he spotted the crowd of runners.

“What’s the meaning of this?”

“Runners. Here to call on the [Lady] of the mansion. We have a priority delivery.”

Ryoka spoke for all of them. The [Butler] hesitated as he slowly walked towards the gates. He counted and stared at all of their faces.

“Please wait. I will inform the mistress momentarily. Her company has just arrived. Please—”

He hurried back. Ryoka stared at him. She didn’t recognize him. But now the memory was washing over her.

A mansion in the city. A [Lady]’s request. A delivery to—

She saw the door close. Around her, the Runners shifted, looking uneasy. Todel was muttering something.

“…present to you…”

Ryoka stared at the mansion. A [Butler]. But she had [Maids], didn’t she? And she travelled a lot. And she was—

What had the [Knight] said? Politics. Ryoka waited. She had forgotten how to breathe. It couldn’t be. Did he know it was her? Was this all some chance? She waited. And then she heard a scuff. The door opened. The [Butler] reappeared, bowing, and someone stepped out of the apartment. Ryoka saw a flash of pink. Her mouth opened.

“Magnol—”

A pink [Knight] stepped out of the door. The word caught in Ryoka’s mouth. She stared. A pink…[Knight]?

Yes. The armored woman strode forwards, and another one exited on the left, through the double doors. One was male, the other female. They marched as the sun shone off their bright, rose-pink armor, their helmets removed. Ryoka saw an older man, a young woman. And flanked between them, gracefully walking down the steps, a surprised look on her face was—

A stranger. Not Magnolia Reinhart. She was taller. Thinner. And beautiful. Not that Magnolia Reinhart hadn’t been beautiful, but this was a [Lady] among ladies. She wore a free, riding dress, slashed yellow and red, and her hair was short. She was younger than Magnolia, by a bit. And her voice was spirited, loud even. But captivating, too.

“What’s this? It’s a small army of Runners. Are they all here for me? Thomast? Thomast, come and look at this!”

Lady Bethal Walchaís clapped her hands together and laughed as the Runners stared at her. The [Butler] dabbed at his brow.

“I’m terribly sorry to disturb you, Lady Walchaís. I understand you’ve just arrived, but it seemed—”

“Nonsense! I’m delighted. Although I wonder who’s arranged this on my holiday of all things. Sir Kerrig, was this your idea?”

Playfully, the [Lady] turned towards the [Knight] on her left. The older man, who had a battleaxe strapped to his back, bowed slightly.

“Not I, Lady Walchaís. May I suggest caution? This is unusual. Please allow me to inspect whatever is being delivered.”

“And ruin the fun? Oh, no. If no one’s [Dangersense] is going off, I want to be the first to see. Thomast! Come and look, dear!”

Bethal clapped her hands as she walked towards the Runners. Ryoka stared at her. She had never seen Lady Bethal before in her life. But she had something of Magnolia’s air. Todel bowed hurriedly as she approached.

“Lady Bethal of House Walchaís?”

He stepped forwards. Instantly, the female [Knight] reached for her sword. Todel stopped, his face pale. Bethal clicked her tongue, frowning.

“Lady Welca, please. These are Runners. Let the man speak.”

The [Knight]’s cheeks flamed, and she bowed hurriedly.

“Apologies, Lady Walchaís.”

She stepped back, glaring at Todel. The City Runner gulped. He looked at the others, and the words spilled out of him.

“Lady Bethal Walchaís, I have a small token for you. A—a mark of esteem from one of your colleagues. I beg to offer—”

He fumbled for the object he’d put behind his back and stumbled over his words. Ryoka stepped forwards. She felt Bethal’s eyes travel to her and felt a small shock. There was power behind that cheerful gaze.

“We beg to offer you this gift. A gift given to those who earn it. So bear witness to this lowly bloom, and let all who witness it know its significance. The smallest of things.”

So saying, she lifted the item in her hands. Slowly, as one, the other Runners did likewise. Lady Bethal blinked as she saw the same small item held in each hand. Some of the Runners knelt, others offered it up like a gift from an admirer. And it was a lovely sight.

Dozens of black roses, the petals stained so darkly purple as to be black on first glance, blooming in the spring air. Each one was delicate, freshly plucked. Some were enchanted, so the dew still glimmered on the petals. Others were crushed by indelicate handling, Ghalim’s fist. More than one had drawn blood from the carrier. The thorns were razor sharp. But they rose, and the Runners knelt or bowed, holding the gifts aloft.

Sir Kerrig stared. He looked from flower to flower, and slowly relaxed his hand from the battleaxe on his back. He looked at Lady Bethal.

She had gone white. And she wasn’t the only one. Welca Caveis gasped. She stared at the flowers in horror, then began to draw her sword. The [Butler] had also gone pale. He backed away, into the house. Ryoka stared at Lady Bethal’s face.

“We beg to accept—”

“Who gave you that?”

The female [Knight]’s hand closed over Ryoka’s wrist. The young woman jerked. Welca’s eyes were blazing.

“How dare you. How dare—”

“Lady Caveis! Control yourself!”

Sir Kerrig snapped. His eyes darted from Lady Bethal’s face to the uncomprehending Runners. He pulled Welca back, and she let go of Ryoka’s wrist.

“Lady Walchaís.”

Ryoka was afraid. She looked at Bethal’s face. The woman’s eyes were locked on the black rose Ryoka held. A thorn pressed into Ryoka’s skin, cutting into her flesh. She tried to shift her grip and cut herself. Red blood dripped down the stem.

“This is a gift? To me?”

Bethal looked from flower to flower. The Runners stared up at her. Sir Kerrig glanced at Welca.

“What does it mean?”

“It’s a message. A flower code. One of the symbols used by Izril’s nobility. But—”

Welca broke off. She was trembling. Melodie looked uneasily at her face.

“We—we don’t know what it means. Lady Walchaís, we were hired to give you this. We didn’t know it would be all of us. We swear—”

“Who?”

Bethal’s voice was quiet. She looked at Melodie. The young woman froze, her eyes wide. She’d stopped breathing.

“Who?”

“The Order of Clairei Fields sends this one.”

The gaze swept to Ryoka. The City Runner felt her heart freeze in her chest. Todel stuttered behind her.

“Lord Erill sends this one, Lady—”

He too froze. Lady Bethal looked from him to Ryoka.

“Who else?”

Melodie gasped.

“Lady Ieka’s. This comes from—”

She trailed off. But more Runners spoke up, their voices mingling together.

“Lord Sandic.”

“Lady Danica and her husband, Lord Vite.”

“The House of Averin.”

“The Indivu Estates.”

“Lord Pellmia.”

“Sir Ashca.”

“The Houses of Wekle, Kelid, and…”

On and on the names came. One by one. Each one with a flower. A rose, as black as could be. They were beautiful. But Lady Bethal stared at them with unblinking eyes.

At last the halting flow of voices came to a stop. The Runners stared at Bethal. She looked across them.

“I see. So this comes from my peers, does it? From orders of [Knights]. From noble houses. Do you—does anyone here know what this means?”

No. The Runners shook their heads. Ryoka was staring at the flower. Now that she saw it, she knew it had to mean something. A black flower. If you didn’t know flowers could be a language at court—no wonder Todel had thought it was a lover’s token. She looked up and met Bethal’s gaze. It was like staring at lightning. Ryoka looked down.

“The black rose. Perhaps only Izril talks with flowers.”

Bethal’s voice was the only sound on the street. The only sound in the world. She looked from flower to flower. Her voice was soft.

“In days past, it meant something else. But that changed with the passing of decades. With the Goblin King. When he rode across Izril, these roses, rare and precious, were cut from their gardens. Did you know? They were sent to men and women. Across the north, after Velan had been slain. And half of those who received the flower died soon thereafter. Do you know why?”

No one replied. Welca was shaking. She stared at her [Lady]. Bethal slowly reached out and plucked the black rose from Ryoka’s hand. She lifted it.

“They killed themselves. Because everyone knew their shame. Never mind if they burned the rose or hid in their homes. Because of what it meant. The black rose was a symbol of cowardice, sent to all the peers of the realm who fled, or hid, rather than face the Goblin King.”

Ryoka’s breath caught in her chest. Bethal looked up. And her eyes glittered. Her lips curved up into a smile. As graceful as the curve as a flower’s petals. As dangerous as the thorns.

“This is a token from my peers. With it, they’ve named me a coward. For siding with Magnolia. For condemning Tyrion Veltras at Liscor. They sent the black roses to me. Me.”

Her hand slowly tightened around the rose, heedless of the thorns. Sir Kerrig made a sound. He started forwards and stopped. Lady Bethal was looking at him. The [Knight] froze in his tracks. Slowly, Bethal turned. And her voice was very, very quiet.

“I fought in the Second Antinium War.”

Blood ran down Lady Bethal’s wrist. The Runners were held still. Lady Bethal went on. And her eyes were glittering like gemstones.

“I stood against Velan the Kind during the Sacrifice of Roses. My family around me and I saw the Goblins burn against the gates of First Landing.”

Tears fell from her eyes. Blood was already running down her arm. Dripping onto the ground. And still, Lady Bethal looked at them. Her voice whispered and roared.

“I was there. I saw them break on our swords. I fought, when the Walchaís line ended. In a single hour. The Goblin Lords rode through our lines, and the Goblin King himself assailed us. But we never ran. We held our ground. We walked through arrows and flames with nothing but pride, and we never stopped. We never stepped back.”

Water and blood dripped and mixed on the ground. Lady Bethal’s hand trembled, and the rose snapped.

“Gone. And we were gone. We walked through the night. And when the dawn came, First Landing stood. The Goblin King broke his armies there. And the world knew that the flowers of Izril were as deadly as they were beautiful. I was there. I saw it all.”

She turned. And Ryoka bowed. Slowly, the Runners knelt. And they were not alone. The Rose Knights fell to one knee. And the people on the streets, children, adults, young and old, bowed. They knelt. And Lady Bethal wept. The bloody flower fell from her hand and struck the ground. She lowered her bleeding hand and looked away.

“So they call me coward. How many never stood with me? Who among them did? We were there. How dare they?”

No one could speak. Ryoka was trembling. Bethal looked around. And no one dared meet her gaze. She stared at the blood on her hand and then she noticed the water on her cheeks. She touched her tears, and her fingers left a streak of blood. Bethal looked at her hand, and then she laughed.

The sound made Ryoka look up. She saw Bethal throw her head back and laugh. Shaken, the others on the street looked up. Lady Bethal Walchaís laughed. Her voice rang down the street as she laughed, as if it were the funniest thing in the world. Laughter as the tears still ran down her face.

Madness. And when the [Lady] lowered her head and the laughter faded, Ryoka saw Lady Bethal’s eyes on her. She shuddered, because she saw a kindred spirit. Despair and laughter. A good day turned bad. Lady Bethal scrubbed at her face with one sleeve. Then she turned and smiled brightly at the City and Street Runners before her.

“So it goes. Thank you ever so much for delivering your gifts, dear Runners. I would invite you in, but I’m terribly pressed for time at the moment. Would you please return a message to your clients?”

They raised their heads uncertainly. Lady Bethal’s eyes sparkled. She smiled and touched a finger to her lips.

“I am sure my fellow [Ladies] have received the same rose. A symbol of contempt. A provocation. It matters not. It may be a taunt. It may be a message. I do not care. I am Lady Bethal Walchaís, and this rose means more than any word, any gesture they could imagine.”

So saying, Lady Bethal turned. She clapped her hands lightly, and her two [Knights] rose. She called into the house, to a man who stood silently behind her.

“Thomast, dear? Bring your good sword. And someone fetch me an axe. I am going to murder a good number of my peers. My Knights of the Petal? Arm yourselves for battle and mount up. Oh, and Runners? Here is the message I wish you to return to your clients.”

Lady Bethal turned. And her blood fell on the ground as the black roses fell and broke. Bethal’s voice never changed a beat as she met Ryoka’s eyes.

Madness and sadness.

“Tell them that this is war.”





6.26


War. Was it just her, or was there too much war? Both in her world and here. Not a day passed when Ryoka didn’t hear about the King of Destruction in Chandrar or about some conflict in Baleros between companies. A spat in Terandria between kingdoms.

Battles at sea. Dead gods or living ones, wasn’t there enough with just monsters? But then again—

There she stood. Tears still ran down her cheeks. She was still weeping. But she had promised war and death. With a smile, no less. She had commanded her [Knights] to war just like that. And she was like Ryoka. That was what the young woman felt.

Lady Bethal Walchaís. She stood in the middle of the street, the solo actor in a play where everyone was the audience. And Ryoka had a terrible, hideous urge to laugh at that moment, while Bethal’s words were still ringing in her ears.

Not because Ryoka didn’t believe Bethal was serious. Or because she couldn’t fathom what Lady Bethal was talking about. She had forced a street to kneel with her presence alone. As she had spoken about the Sacrifice of Roses, Ryoka had felt the pain and loss as if it had happened to herself. A fragment of the agony Bethal was giving off.

It was like heat. Yes, like heat. If Bethal was the center, then the heat was radiating off her. But instead of heat it was pain. That was what her aura felt like to Ryoka. Pure, concentrated emotion. And still, Ryoka wanted to laugh.

Because it wasn’t funny. Not really. Not at all. The black roses lay on the ground, amid the blood dripping from Bethal’s hand. And the tears. That wasn’t funny at all. But if Ryoka didn’t laugh, what else could she do? She had not been there.

Bethal turned, her face a mask of tragedy underneath that polite, eerily cheerful smile she’d adopted. Her [Knights] looked at each other. And Ryoka waited for blood and carnage, perhaps starting with the petrified runners standing in front of Lady Bethal. But at that moment, a second actor strode onto the scene. Stage…center. He came out of the mansion behind Bethal.

“Thomast. There you are. Where were you?”

Bethal turned to him. Ryoka saw a man dressed in a light red coat and long, black breeches. His hair was yet unmarked by gray; it was a warm black, and he had decided a mustache would be his only nod to facial hair. His eyes were a mix of yellow and green, and he walked with a long, unbroken stride. Cat-like, one might say, but Ryoka had seen cats wipe out spectacularly. This man walked as if he knew where each step would go exactly. And he carried a sword, a long and thin duelist’s blade, at his side.

“Bethal. My apologies. I was seeing to our luggage. What happened?”

His voice was quiet. Lady Bethal turned to him. Her smile trembled on her lips.

“Thomast. Did you hear me? I said, I need an axe. And I want to summon all my Knights of the Petal. We’ll ride on the nearest house. Which is it? Never mind. We’ll start with House Averin and work our way down. I want to kill at least six of my peers by midnight—”

The man looked at her. And then at her hand. He reached out and caught Bethal’s wrist.

“You’ve cut yourself. Lady Welca, a healing potion.”

The female [Knight] started and fumbled at her belt. Sir Kerrig, the older man, was faster and handed Thomast an opened vial. He poured some of the liquid on Bethal’s hand. Three drops, and the deep cuts left by the thorns were gone. Bethal stared up at Thomast.

“Did you hear me? I said—”

“Black roses. I heard your voice. So that’s why.”

Thomast studied the ground. His eyes passed over the Runners, and they flinched, but Thomast had none of the fire coming off of Bethal. The [Lady] glared.

“Yes! They sent them to me. To me, Thomast. Do you see it? Do you see what they dared to do?”

“I see it.”

“Well? What are you going to do? I know what I shall do. You, [Butler]. An axe. This mansion has one, doesn’t it?”

Bethal clicked her free hand at the [Butler] hiding behind the door of the mansion. He jumped and stammered.

“An—an—”

“I rented this mansion for the week. If it does not have an axe, I will burn it to the ground. I want one in front of me. Axe. Now.”

Bethal’s voice snapped as she lost the last veneer of patience. And this time, the snap in her voice was like a whip. The [Butler] jumped, then ran into the house. Ryoka felt a prickle down her spine. So that was a [Lady]’s ability to command. It was eerily similar to Magnolia’s charm Skill, only more direct. For a second, Ryoka had been about to run and find an axe herself. No, this wasn’t Magnolia’s charm, in fact. It was closer to Teriarch.

“Good, good. Now, I want my Knights of the Petal armed. Sir Kerrig, grab that battleaxe. Lady Welca—”

“Bethal. Wait.”

Thomast captured Bethal’s other hand as she pointed at her [Knights]. The woman halted and glared up at him.

“Are you still catching up, Thomast? I said—”

“I heard you. And I’m afraid I must object.”

“Object?”

Now Ryoka felt a prickling sensation in the air. Bethal looked up at her husband, and the air around her felt like thorns. It was so real that Ryoka and Todel, who were closest to her, shifted back. Thomast, who was right next to his wife, nodded.

“You’re not thinking straight, Bethal. You can’t repay this with blood.”

“I can and will. Don’t try to talk me out of it—”

“Give me one hour. At least to prove these were sent by everyone who named themselves.”

“You want to prove it? Why? No one else would dare appropriate so many names, not even Magnolia herself! And I will question my peers when I meet them face-to-face. Politely. And if they lie…let go of my hands, Thomast.”

The thorns were growing stronger. Thomast, however, was undeterred.

“Not until you promise to wait for one hour.”

“Why? So I can cool down? I won’t. Let go of me, Thomast. I won’t warn you twice.”

Bethal tugged at Thomast’s hands. He didn’t budge.

“No. I insist, Bethal. An hour’s all I ask. We’ll go for a…walk.”

“A walk?”

She hissed at him. Suddenly, the thorns in the air around her became real. Ryoka shouted in pain, and Todel howled. Both stumbled back. Ryoka stared at her legs and grabbed at the thorns that were buried there. She saw nothing—until blood started running from several holes in her legs. Long, deep cuts. Todel was clutching at his arm. The shoulder he’d turned towards Bethal was running with blood. From sharp cuts much like Ryoka’s own.

The other Runners stared at the two in horror. They drew back fast. Bethal turned to glare at them, and Thomast, who hadn’t moved, sighed.

“You’re injuring them, Bethal. Pull back your aura.”

The woman glared. But the thorny feeling around her faded just a tad so the thorns were imaginary instead of simply invisible. Ryoka grabbed a potion and splashed it on Todel’s arm and then her legs. To her relief, the wounds healed at once.

“They deserve it. They sent the roses.”

Lady Bethal’s voice was still furious, but a slight tone of guilt was layered underneath. Ryoka saw Thomast’s eyes flicker as he glanced at her and Todel.

“I imagine they had no idea what they meant. Bethal, a walk.”

“You won’t let go of me until I agree?”

Bethal stared up at her husband. He nodded.

“Then I agree. Let me go.”

“Promise.”

“I promise.”

He sighed.

“Promise me on our wedding vows.”

Bethal’s cheeks flamed. She turned her head; the [Butler] was running back with a wood chopping axe. He came to a halt, panting madly.

“You don’t trust me?”

“I trust you implicitly. Your word, not one bit. Swear to me on our wedding vows, or on House Walchaís’ name.”

Bethal glared at her husband.

“And if I don’t want to swear? I can stand like this all day, you know.”

She kicked her husband, disproving her statement instantly. Thomast didn’t move. He bent his head.

“Bethal.”

“I won’t. Choose something else, Thomast.”

Another kick. He nodded slowly.

“Then swear it by the Sacrifice of Roses. By their honor, an hour’s time. Or you will do disgrace to their honor.”

Lady Bethal went white. Her hands trembled in Thomast’s grip. She spoke slowly, and so quietly and deliberately, Ryoka instantly looked up in alarm.

“I swear. Will that do?”

Thomast nodded silently. Ryoka opened her mouth to tell the man not to let go of Bethal for any reason, but it was too late. The fool let go of Bethal. Instantly, she raised a hand and slapped Thomast across the face.

Crack. The audience on the street winced, and Thomast’s head turned slightly with the blow. He didn’t move, though. He looked down at Bethal.

“An hour, Bethal. And a walk. Or at least come inside. This isn’t the right spot.”

He gestured towards the mansion. The [Butler] backed off with the axe as Lady Bethal turned her head. She was breathing hard. She raised a hand again, glared at Thomast, and then whirled.

“Fine.”

She strode into the house without a second word. Ryoka was impressed; Thomast didn’t even rub his cheek as he turned to the [Knight] on his right. The man bowed to him slightly.

“Sir Thomast, I regret my inaction.”

The man shrugged slightly. He touched the handprint on his cheek ruefully. So he had felt that.

“She is your [Lady]. And my wife. Nevertheless. I understand the black roses. I take it these Runners delivered them?”

He glanced at the Runners outside the gates. Sir Kerrig nodded slowly. The shorter young woman also dressed in pink armor glared at Ryoka and the others. Her hand tightened on a longsword at her side.

“Sir Thomast, your orders?”

“I’ll attend to Bethal. In the meantime, Sir Kerrig, take Lady Welca and conduct an investigation of Reizmelt’s Runner’s Guild. Ensure that these flowers were indeed sent by those named. I’ll try to persuade Bethal to wait until—”

Ryoka heard a clatter of hooves and turned left just in time to see Lady Bethal riding around the side of the mansion. She was mounted on a speckled, pale grey and white mare, already saddled. Thomast looked up at her. Bethal stared down at him innocently.

“A walk, Bethal.”

“I only promised to wait an hour. And I’ll be having my walk on my own, Thomast. My [Knights] are free to accompany me.”

“Lady Walchaís, wait!”

Sir Kerrig and Welca instantly turned towards the stables. Bethal ignored them and began to trot off. Thomast made an exasperated sound for the first time. He turned to Sir Kerrig.

“The Runners. I’ll follow her.”

“You will not!”

Bethal glared. But Thomast had already disappeared. One, two, three—each step carried him twice as far as a normal man’s stride! He was around the side of a house in a second. Ryoka blinked. That was quick! And in a moment, he was on horseback and riding at Bethal.

“Bethal—”

“I don’t want to hear it!”

Bethal turned and wheeled her mare around. She dug her heels into her horse’s sides, and the mare took off. Bethal galloped past Ryoka and the Runners, who sprang out of the way. Thomast was hot on her heels. Ryoka heard him call at Bethal to slow down. The [Lady] replied with a curse Ryoka had heard Relc shout once.

They were out of sight in a moment. The pink [Knights], the [Butler], still holding the axe, and the citizens of Reizmelt watched them go. Ryoka stared around, and then looked at Todel’s white face.

“Who was that?”

He grinned at her, the blood still drying on his arm. Sir Kerrig, the [Knight] in the pink armor, turned back to Ryoka. His expression suggested chagrin. Welca’s suggested violence.

“That was Lady Bethal Walchaís, Miss. Last of her line. All of you remain here. I have some questions to ask you. And I believe I will need directions to your Runner’s Guild.”

He didn’t put a hand on the huge battleaxe strapped to his back, and the young woman didn’t actually draw her sword. But no one decided to run away. Ryoka stared at the place where Lady Bethal had been, and then at the blood and the black roses on the ground.

Lady Bethal. The last few minutes said it all, really.



——



Six people on the street weren’t part of the scene, the drama, as it unfolded. Or rather, if they were, they weren’t members of the audience, but the supporting cast. They watched as participants, not as observers. And they spoke quickly in the moments after Lady Bethal had galloped away.

“Damn. How’d she get mounted that fast?”

“They just arrived. Why couldn’t they have timed it later?”

“Never mind that. I had a clear shot at her. Why did you block me? The order was to make it public.”

One of the six hissed at the other. A distinctly female voice replied to him, although all six were hooded. And it had to be said, six hooded figures were usually the opposite of invisible—unless they were standing at the back of the crowd that had watched Lady Bethal’s speech. They were getting a lot of looks. One of the six shifted, distinctly aware of how unprofessional all this was.

“I blocked you because it was a bad shot. She was moving. And even if you’d hit, her husband and those bodyguards would be on us in seconds. You think we could take them?”

“There are six of us.”

The angry one was now sulky. The female glared out of her hood.

“Against two [Knights]? Are you mad? Wait until they’re alone. We’re getting paid for the attempt, but the bounty on either one is a hundred times that.”

“Fine. Looks like the [Knights] want those Runners, anyways. Suits me.”

Four of the hoods nodded. One of them was less sure.

“There’s still the husband. He’s a known duelist, isn’t he? The [Chevalier] Thomast. I know he has an enchanted blade. And he’s probably got other equipment.”

“So? There are six of us. One of him. And he may be a [Fencer], but he has no bell. He’s just good for a [Lord]. We can do it.”

The other five nodded. They slipped backwards, again, attracting a number of looks. They weren’t very professional. They were, in fact, rookies. But they were still [Assassins]. Which meant that they were somewhat good at their jobs. They followed the horses out of the city. After stopping to rent six of their own.

It really was unprofessional.



——



Lady Bethal rode south out of Reizmelt like an arrow. She didn’t stop at the gate, and she didn’t bother avoiding the people on the road. They avoided her. Bethal furiously urged her mare forwards, taking to the main road and sticking to it. And she was being pursued.

Thomast Veniral, [Chevalier] and husband to Lady Bethal, rode his stallion after her with dogged determination. She had a few seconds on him, but both their horses were excellent. And while she was the better rider of the two, he was dogged and neither had riding Skills. So she failed to lose him in the first, frantic ten minutes.

Bethal rode furiously, but even in her fury, she couldn’t bring herself to harm her horse, so before the animal could tire or risk a fall or injury, she slowed the mad gallop. When she did, Thomast caught up. Breathing heavily, she glared at her husband.

“Go away.”

“I can’t do that, Bethal. You’re unprotected by yourself.”

“Get Kerrig, then. And Welca.”

“They’re investigating the origin of the roses—”

“Leaving you with no choice to follow me, is that it?”

Thomast quietly slowed his panting stallion. He looked at Bethal and shook his head.

“There’s no place I’d rather be.”

She glared at him. The glare bounced off Thomast. After a second, Bethal lightly moved her reins. The mare trotted forwards, down the road.

“I’m not going back to Reizmelt. I’m going for a ride. An hour, you said? I’m going to ride for an hour. Unless you have a problem with that?”

The look in her eyes dared Thomast to say anything. He only nodded.

“A ride is as good as a walk.”

Bethal turned her head and made a disgusted sound. She rode on, and Thomast followed her.

South, down the road. There were too many people for Bethal’s taste, so at the first juncture, she took the road less travelled by. Further away from eyes. The first few minutes were just streaming fury on her side and Thomast quietly waiting. His stallion snorted and kept edging closer to the mare, who wanted to walk closer to the stallion. Bethal, on the other hand, kept moving their horses apart, but animal magnetism drew them together again and again.

After the umpteenth time she’d moved her mare back, Bethal spoke abruptly.

“I know they sent them. All of them. Sir Kerrig will find that out. It’s obvious they were the ones who sent the roses. It wasn’t a ruse.”

“You are most likely correct.”

Her eyes flashed at him.

“I am correct. And when I meet them, I will cut off their heads. Each and every one of them. How dare they, Thomast? How dare they?”

He didn’t reply. She glared at him.

“Don’t you think they deserve it? Don’t you? They called me a coward! When my family, my brother and father and mother all died there! Where were they, Thomast? Where were they?”

She screamed the words, scaring a passing traveller nearly off his horse. Thomast didn’t reply. Bethal cursed and turned down another road, going further away from a larger settlement.

“I’m going to kill them. And you won’t stop me. I won’t calm down. An hour? You can make me wait a year and I won’t forgive them. Ever. They’re going to die.”

“Of course, Bethal.”

She turned her head.

“You can’t trick me. I am going to pick up that axe and do it myself. Do you hear me?”

“Yes. I do.”

His calm reply only incensed Bethal even more. She screamed at him, her hands tight on the reins.

“Are you even listening?”

Her mare stopped, alarmed. Bethal glared at her mount and kicked it to make it move. Thomast patiently soothed his stallion as the horse rolled its eyes back at its master. When Bethal had gotten her mare to keep moving, Thomast cast a glance at the sky. Clear weather and gentle winds. It was at odds with Bethal’s screams. But there were fewer travellers. He cast a glance on the road behind him, frowning for a second. Then he turned to Bethal.

“I’m listening. Don’t forget the children.”

“What?”

Bethal was breathing hard. Thomast fingered his mustache.

“When you cut off their heads with the axe yourself. Don’t forget the children.”

That brought her up short. Bethal turned to glare at Thomast. She opened her mouth, made a fist, and turned her head.

“Only the adults, then. Only their damned parents.”

“Of course. We can ensure the children find another home. They can grow up by themselves.”

Bethal flinched for a second. She bit her lip hard enough to draw blood. She spat it out after a moment.

“Don’t talk me out of it.”

Thomast nodded. He rode along in silence as Bethal healed her lip with a healing potion. Then she spoke up.

“Someone put them up to it. Who? I’m going to kill that person. I will.”

He waited. Bethal glanced at him. She was breathing less heavily now, and her cheeks were less flushed.

“I know what you’ll say! You’ll say this is a trap to make me attack them! Or—or to lose my temper! I am completely calm! But would you stand by while your family’s name was insulted? While you—you’re not a [Lord]. You have no idea what kind of an insult this was!”

“I do not.”

Thomast steadily met Bethal’s glare. She turned her head. Her mare accelerated as the [Lady] urged her to go faster. Thomast caught up after a second. Bethal was breathing hard once more.

“I didn’t mean that. I just meant—they died there! They died, and these ungrateful leeches are accusing me of—of—”

Bethal made an inarticulate noise. She hit the saddle horn in front of her, shouting raging. Her mare again stopped in alarm. Thomast reached over, but Bethal yanked away from him.

“I won’t forgive them! I won’t ever forgive them!”

He nodded. Bethal urged her mare forwards. He never lost her. After her outburst, she was furious. And then, a minute later, crying.

“I still dream about it, Thomast! They were there. And after that Goblin Lord—how dare they? How could they? Mother and Father. I was right there. And then the Goblins were—”

She pointed a trembling finger at spaces and at a time only she could see. Thomast waited. He listened as Bethal’s voice changed to horror. Pain. Fear. And then fury once more. He listened as she vowed fury and bloodshed.

After half an hour, she was crying again. In ten more minutes, she was raging. Furious. The horses continued down the winding trail, halting and stopping. And Thomast listened. Sometimes he spoke, but not to say much. He just waited, as Bethal’s swings between fury and grief grew less and less. He looked at his wife and saw both emotions taking their toll, tiring her.

Was it madness? Insanity, as some called it? The fragile female ego overloaded by grief and past trauma? Thomast had heard it all said, usually behind Bethal’s back. And even then, never to his face. Not anymore. Some were afraid of the last daughter of House Walchaís. But she had never been terrifying to Thomast.

She was, and had always been, just Bethal. And she was weeping again, so he dismounted and offered her a hand. They had gone a long ways, and the road had become completely empty around them. They were in the proximity of a rural village, having passed around it twenty minutes back.

“Come on down. Let’s walk and give the horses a chance to rest.”

Bethal hesitated, but dismounted. She was crying now. And now Thomast let her slide down. He held her for a second.

“Thomast. Do you think they’re right?”

He looked down at her. Bethal blinked up at him, her face a mess of tears and snot. Thomast gripped her arms.

“They are wrong.”

She paused. Now she was looking at him. Now that she was, now that she was listening, Thomast hugged her. She buried her face in his tunic.

“They’re wrong, Bethal. You know that.”

She gripped him tightly, crying into his shoulder.

“I’m sorry I hit you. I’m sorry. But the flowers.”

“You have every right to be angry. You just can’t kill them. It’s a trap. You know that.”

“I know. But—”

That was all she said. But. Thomast squeezed her harder. And she clung to him as if they were the only people left in the world. If only that were true. The [Chevalier] looked around, speaking quietly to Bethal.

“They’re wrong. They weren’t there. And they will never know what it was like. I don’t. You don’t have to forgive them. Just don’t let them trap you.”

“Why the black rose? Why that, Thomast?”

Bethal’s voice broke. Thomast shifted, feeling his rapier moving at his side. He glanced around.

There was no one about. They’d come far, and a little farm was the only thing nearby. A field of crops, a scarecrow at rest…the air was still as Thomast turned to face Bethal. She stepped back a tiny bit and stared up at him. She’d wiped her face onto his damp shoulder. Now she looked even more beautiful. He felt his heart squeeze. He let go of her with one hand and put his hand at his side.

“Someone must have asked them to send it.”

Bethal nodded. She sniffed hard, and her voice took on a hint of normalcy. For the first time, she frowned as she thought. A few residual tears squeezed themselves out of her eyes, but she was done crying.

“Not Tyrion. But who? The Circle of Thorns? Damn them. And damn Magnolia for pulling us into it. She plays her games and she always gets what she wants. This is her fault.”

“You agreed to help her.”

“Because the alternative was war with the Drakes! You heard her!”

Thomast stepped back as Bethal glared. He put a hand on the hilt of his rapier.

“I think it was the correct decision. But you knew there would be consequences.”

Thomast turned his head as he spoke. He stared backwards, at a distant stand of trees, and then eyed the trail around them. Bethal sniffed again.

“But this? Am I supposed to lie down and take this? Really, Thomast?”

“No.”

The man raised his voice. He looked around and then turned to his wife.

“Bethal Walchaís. I love you.”

She stopped. And stared at him. Thomast spoke only to her as he slowly drew the rapier on his right side. He stepped closer to her, and his voice was steady.

“I am not much of a man for words. I don’t know anything else but how to fence. And I am no master at that, just a student. But I do love you. If you go to war, I will be your sword. If you seek the stars, I will learn to fly. That is what I’ve always pledged.”

She looked at him, wide-eyed. She reached out, but Thomast held up a hand. He turned his head.

“Step back, Bethal. You six, come out.”

The [Lady] turned as he pointed with his rapier. The shadows on the road shifted. Six shapes appeared. One stood up, having crawled for a hundred feet in the grass. Another had slipped from shadow to shadow until he’d lain by the road’s side. Two more appeared, their enchantment broken. The last two were lying in the brushes, dozens of feet away. They rose as Thomast looked at them.

“Assassins.”

“Amateurs. Experts wouldn’t have revealed themselves. But they did wait until we were alone. It was my mistake. Stay behind me, Bethal.”

Thomast stepped in front of Bethal, facing the six [Assassins]. His rapier was held in one hand. The [Assassin] who’d crawled close spat. Two flint-colored eyes glared at Bethal and Thomast from a face wrapped by black cloth. He was dressed like an ordinary citizen, a traveller with worn clothes. But his face was wrapped. His identity concealed. The man’s voice was muffled as he glared at Thomast.

“Take him. He’s only a [Fencer] without a bell. He doesn’t—”

He gasped. The [Assassin] next to him leapt back with a shout. The first [Assassin] stumbled and stared down at the rapier that had run him through the chest. Thomast yanked the blade free and stepped back. He’d stepped six feet in a second, lunging forwards in a [Fencer]’s classic strike. He stepped backwards as the other five [Assassins] learned one of the cardinal rules of their craft: don’t make speeches.

Thomast flicked his blade, and a flicker of wind blew along the enchanted metal. He calmly flicked the tip, and the [Assassin] nearest him dodged the slash of air that cut towards her head with a curse. He nodded at the remaining five.

“The [Fencer]’s bell? You must have heard incorrectly. I don’t have one because it makes too much noise. My lady wife despises the sound. Now—”

He leapt again. But this time, his thrust missed the second [Assassin], who screamed as she retreated.

“[Flawless Dodge]!”

Thomast broke off the lunge mid-strike and turned. Two arrows and three darts flickered at Bethal. She turned, lurching left, too slow. Thomast appeared in front of her. He slashed four times, so fast that she couldn’t see his blade move. But the wind and his sword cut down all five missiles mid-flight. Thomast slapped the mare’s flanks and then the stallion’s as the [Assassins] repositioned, shouting at each other.

“Circle them!”

“Deploy the spells!”

“Someone get in here! I can’t get close without—”

“Thomast!”

Bethal cried out. One of the [Assassins] was pointing a wand. Thomast flicked his rapier. Wind cut across the distance between them at the same time the [Assassin] fired the spell from her wand. Lightning shot across the air and exploded in the air as it struck the blade of wind Thomast had created. The [Assassin] cursed, reeling back—

“—Lunge.]”

This time, the blade spearing her through the chest withdrew in an instant. Thomast leapt backwards, rushing towards Bethal across the odd forty feet his Skill had taken him in a moment. The remaining four [Assassins] drew back silently. They looked at each other. One nodded slowly.

“We can do it. Stay back. Force him to use his Skills. Be ready to d—”

He ducked as a blade of wind passed over his head. The other three began throwing spells and weapons. Thomast whirled, cutting them down. And Lady Bethal watched.

This was the final scene. The drama in the middle of the road in the middle of nowhere. Four black killers, a [Chevalier], and a [Lady]. And while two had fallen, the rest refused to die as simply.

Four versus Thomast, and he had to guard Bethal at the same time. And these weren’t bandits, a horde of Goblins, or inexperienced enemies. They were [Assassins], fighting with poisoned darts, blowpipes, and magical items as well as their shortswords and daggers.

And they kept a distance. Thomast might have struck them down even so or closed the distance in a moment, but they bombarded him with spells and weapons. He was a blur, cutting down arrows, slashing the air to make spells explode around Bethal. He couldn’t reach them without abandoning her; the wind slashes he could make were all too easy to dodge.

And all Bethal could do was watch. Her hands were white-knuckled at her sides as she kept very still, at the center of the fighting, watching Thomast parry and pivot around her. She kept her aura up, but the [Aura of Thorns] only worked if someone struck at her. It penetrated flesh and blood. Not steel. Thomast struck down two more poisoned darts as he calmly stepped around her, guarding her from every side.

“Thomast—”

Bethal could see sweat running down the [Fencer]’s brow. He refused to slow, but she knew how hard it had to be. He was a [Fencer], trained to duel, to solo battles, not to defend! And it was ten times harder to protect her and himself. Bethal wanted to tell him to break the stalemate, even if it meant risking her injury. But she dared not disturb his concentration.

Slowly, Bethal stared down at her right hand. She had a priceless ring, one of the treasures of House Walchaís, on her index finger. It was far plainer than the wedding band on her ring finger, but it could deflect a number of attacks that came at her. But poison? Thomast had healing potions, and so did she. But some poisons could overwhelm even the best potion. So she hesitated. And then, within less than five minutes of the battle starting, it came to its finale.

“[Daggerhail].”

“[Power Shot].”

“[Flash Cut]!”

Three of the [Assassins] stopped and shouted. Dozens of daggers filled the air as, from the other side, the [Assassin] with the bow shot one arrow. The third [Assassin] charged in, her shortsword flashing at Thomast’s chest. The [Chevalier] paused. And then he vanished.

Bethal heard a ringing sound. She saw the daggers flying at her, and then she saw Thomast. Striking down a dagger in front of her, parrying the charging [Assassin], running them through, knocking down a dagger to the side, slashing the arrow in half, turning with the force of the impact—in a dozen places at once! Teleporting from spot to spot, each time striking, in a moment—

[Flicker Onslaught]. A Skill for a Skill. The daggers crashed out of the sky and the [Assassin] screamed and died and the arrow meant for Bethal exploded in the air as time resumed. Thomast stopped, panting and whirled. Because he had been counting. So had Bethal. She saw the fourth [Assassin] appear in her shadow.

“[Shadow Leap].”

He was close. Too close. Thomast’s last step had carried him away. Now he lunged, but slow, too slow. The [Assassin] raised a dagger, mouth opened wide to scream a Skill—

And the scarecrow shot him through the head.

The man’s knees buckled. He collapsed as Thomast’s blade ran him through and the [Fencer] dove, blocking a blow meant for Bethal. But it never came. As the [Assassin] collapsed, the two remaining [Assassins], Bethal, and Thomast looked around, trying to figure out what had happened. Then they saw the scarecrow.

There he was, standing in front of his field of corn. With a bow. The fake scarecrow raised his bow and put a second arrow into the air. The [Assassins] dodged out of reflex, and Thomast got to his feet. The remaining two stared at the [Farmer]. One raised his hands, dropping his blade.

“No. Mercy. Please?”

He looked at the [Chevalier] turning to him with bloody blade in hand. Both he and his companion fled. They ran, one leaping from shadow to shadow, the other running as fast as any City Runner, his figure blurring.

“Go!”

Bethal shouted. Thomast leapt after both. She saw all three vanish for the second and heard a scream. Bethal stared at the two dead figures around her and stepped back. The one with an arrow in his head still held his poisoned dagger.

“Miss! Miss! Are you alright?”

Bethal turned. The scarecrow was waving at her. Bemused, she saw him run over. Then she saw how the [Farmer] had disguised himself and laughed. He wasn’t laughing. The man put an arrow in all four bodies on the ground as he checked the road. Only Bethal and Thomast’s horses were moving, trotting back and snorting, eyes wide. The scarecrow archer looked around.

“What—what were they? [Bandits]?”

“[Assassins]. Thank you for your help, sir.”

Bethal curtsied in her riding dress. The [Farmer] looked at her with wide eyes. Then he cursed and raised his bow. Someone was leaping towards them down the road. It was Thomast. His steps blurred him forwards, much like the [Flash Step] spell. The [Fencer] stopped, eying the [Farmer]. The scarecrow put down his bow.

“Thomast. Did you get them?”

The [Chevalier] shook his head.

“I caught one. The other one would have taken me too long. There might be more about.”

He reached for his side and wiped his blade on a handkerchief, then tossed it aside as he stared at the [Farmer]. The man stared at him, with awe as much as fear. Then at Bethal. The [Lady] was frowning, and in his opinion, far, far too composed after what had just happened.

“Do you think there might be more on the road back?”

“Or around us, waiting for me to lower my guard.”

Thomast nodded. He looked around warily. The [Farmer] hesitated, and then broke in, waving one hand.

“Not on my farm, sir. No one enters my fields, animal or person without my knowing it. Them six were the only ones about. And you two.”

Both Bethal and Thomast looked at him. Uncertainly, the [Farmer] waved at his farm.

“You’ll be safe there. At least, I’ll know when someone comes closer. Even a Level 40 [Thief] can’t hide on my lands. So long as we’re right on them. Come on. We can hide there, and I can call for some help. Blow a horn, maybe—”

He was beckoning them towards his fields, eyes wide with fright. Bethal looked at Thomast. He raised his brows. Bethal looked the scarecrow archer, and then eyed his field of corn. She clapped her hands.

“Very well. What did you say your name was, sir [Farmer]?”

The man hesitated.

“Who? Me, Miss? Lupp.”



——



“So this is your farm? And you live here alone?”

Around fifteen minutes later, Lady Bethal was sitting on Lupp’s porch, eying his fields and home with interest. Thomast was silently staring at the one cow. Lupp was still shaking.

“That’s right, uh, uh, Lady Bethal. I live by myself. I’m a simple man, so forgive my rudeness.”

“You may call me Bethal. And I owe you a debt of gratitude, sir. Thomast might have been badly hurt, charms or not. You helped us, and I will not forget that.”

The [Lady] gave Lupp a bright, beautiful smile. She was out of place in his normal, regular farm. But her presence was also soothing, so Lupp began to stop hyperventilating. He gestured at the black bodies lying on the road.

“You’re awfully calm, Lady—Miss Bethal. Is being attacked that normal to you?”

“More than you might think, sir. Assassins? Rare. But I’ve seen worse.”

The [Lady] turned her head to regard her husband. The [Farmer] licked his lips.

“I’ve seen worse too. But I’ve never actually seen an [Assassin] before. You hear stories—but sometimes I think they’re just stories. The Assassin’s Guild isn’t real, though, is it?”

“All too real. And all too mundane, I’m afraid. Thomast, stop bothering that cow. What do you think they were?”

Thomast turned his head. The two horses were calmly grazing nearby. The [Chevalier] sighed.

“They were amateurs. Good ones, but rookies. Probably the first tier or rank of recruits the Assassin’s Guild calls their own. They were well-armed, though, which means they were paid in advance. And quite a bit. They wouldn’t have been a problem if Sir Kerrig or Lady Welca were here.”

Bethal’s eyes narrowed.

“But I raced off. And if you hadn’t followed me, I would be dead. So someone planned this. The roses and [Assassins].”

Lupp stared from Bethal to Thomast with open mouth. This was all far, far too momentous for him. His head was spinning, and he needed a lie down. He clutched his bow to his side as he stared at Thomast’s expensive rapier, which probably could have bought and sold his farm four times over.

“Begging your pardon, miss. But who are you? And who’s your, uh, husband?”

He was rewarded for his guess with another smile from Bethal.

“I am Lady Bethal, Mister Lupp. As I said. And this is Thomast. Sir Thomast, if you like. But we’re just travellers. I regret disturbing your lovely farm. You said you manage it alone? And you grow corn?”

She pointed down at the field. Lupp nodded a few times.

“That’s right. Nonsfru’s best corn. Best corn for miles, really. Not that I’m biased, mind. I’ve never tasted better. But I’d say my field’s the finest. I have all these Skills, you see. But about those [Assassins]—”

“Really? The best around? Why don’t you sell to a city, then?”

Distracted, Lupp wrinkled his nose.

“And have to cart my corn in? Or hire someone to do the selling? When my wife was around, we’d do it sometimes. But it’s hard selling corn, even the best corn. These days I don’t bother. And the village loves my corn. Why not sell it to them?”

“Fair point. I want some. I’m hungry. Thomast, do you want corn?”

“I’m sending a signal to our [Knights], Bethal. They’re riding towards us as fast as they can, but they’ll be at least thirty minutes.”

The man replied calmly as he wrote on a little scroll he’d pulled out of his bag of holding. Lupp stared at the bag of holding. Bethal got to her feet.

“Well then. I’m having some.”

She walked down the hill from the house. Absently, as if he didn’t notice what he was doing, Thomast followed her, still writing. So Lupp did too. The cow and horses came along as well for solidarity.

“What huge plants!”

Bethal exclaimed as she stared up at the corn, which towered above her. Lupp decided to explain, because corn was the only thing in this world that made sense at the moment.

“Ah, that’s because of my Skill, Miss Bethal. I can control the quality of my plants. And I choose the best seeds. I don’t grow them any higher because the damn birds love them. But I’ve seen corn tall as sixty feet.”

Bethal turned to stare at Lupp.

“You must be joking, sir.”

He grinned, taking off his scarecrow’s hat.

“No, Miss. I’ve seen it myself. And corn can grow monstrously tall, even without a Skill helping it. To be fair, once they get any taller than these, they need scaffolding to hold them up. Or a bit of wind blows them right over. But that’s just for size. My corn’s got taste too!”

“So I see. Would you mind if I took this one?”

Bethal reached up. Lupp nodded, and she plucked an ear off the stalk. She blinked at the weight and size of the corn, husked it, and sniffed.

“It smells good. Thomast, do you want a bite?”

He was still writing. Bethal sighed and took a bite. Her brows raised, and she began chewing. Lupp stared at her.

“How good is it?”

He had confidence in his corn. But she was a [Lady]. Lupp waited. He got no response. Bethal slowly, methodically, and unapologetically cleaned the corn until there was not a single kernel left. Then she smiled.

“That was the finest corn I have ever eaten, I think! Thomast, you must try some. Mister Lupp wasn’t exaggerating!”

The [Farmer] looked delighted. Thomast looked up.

“Really?”

“Yes. Have some! Mister Lupp, how much for some corn?”

“Oh, oh, for free, of course. If it’s just an ear or two—”

Lupp found himself holding another ear of corn. And somehow, he found himself sitting back on his porch, chewing his favorite meal while Bethal and Thomast bit into theirs. The two sat together. Lupp kept staring at them, but Bethal was apparently ravenous, never mind that some corn got on her expensive riding dress. Thomast ate more slowly, but he left nothing behind either, save for the cob, which he offered to his stallion. The horse gave him an affronted look, but ate it anyways.

“Delicious.”

Lady Bethal closed her eyes. Lupp still couldn’t take his eyes off the bodies in the road. He looked at Bethal and wondered what kind of a person could see death and not blink like that. And he saw her open her eyes and give him much the same look.

“So you grow your corn here, Mister Lupp. Every day of the year you can. And you take this wonderful corn and you sell it to the local village. For what? A copper coin per ear of corn?”

“I couldn’t charge them that!”

The [Farmer] was horrified at the idea. He stared at the field and imagined what would happen if he charged that rate.

“That’s prices for the winter. It’s a copper for two and a deal of one for three if they buy in bulk. That field’ll earn me…let’s see. Three or four per stalk. And I plant around six hundred. And I harvest twice a season. Sometimes three if I’m quick. So, er, this field’ll earn me…”

He tried to do the math, his brow furrowing. Thomast’s lips moved. Bethal stared at the field.

“Six hundred crops of corn works out to six hundred pieces of copper if they all have three ears and you sell at your cheapest rate, Mister Lupp. At your best, if you assume half of your corn has three ears and half has four, seven hundred ears sold, half at two per copper and half at three per copper, earns you exactly eight hundred and seventy five copper coins.”

Lupp stared at Bethal. She went on, counting on her fingers.

“Let’s see. A silver coin is ten copper. And gold is twenty silver. So this field is, in fact, worth around four gold coins, seven silver, and five copper. Does that sound right to you, Mister Lupp?”

The [Farmer] stared at Bethal. He frowned, bit his lip, and nodded.

“That’s…almost what I earned from last harvest. Of course, it goes up closer to winter. Down in the summer and fall with the other harvests…”

He flinched at the look in Bethal’s eye.

“You sell your corn for less than five gold coins, Mister Lupp?”

“I can live off five gold coins for months, Miss. Even with repairs and buying other things, it’s usually more than enough.”

The [Farmer] mumbled as he played with his hat. He was thinking of how much he actually spent. Arrows were expensive. A lot more expensive than corn, but it took work to make the shafts and tip them with iron. Bethal shook her head. She looked at her husband.

“Maybe it’s Reizmelt. The area is flatland, and the soil is good. Farms were common. And Blaiseford has very rich soil thanks to the swamps. Even so. Mister Lupp, if you took your harvest into Reizmelt, you could and should charge two copper coins per ear of corn. For this quality, people might pay three. And if you put this before a [Lord] who had the appetite for corn—and many do enjoy it—you could sell an ear of corn for a silver coin apiece.”

Lupp choked on his own spit. Bethal patted him on the back. When the man had his voice back, he spluttered.

“I’d never have the—the stones to do that, Miss Bethal! Never. I don’t even go down to the village most weeks. Having to go to a city and charge prices like that—”

His stomach churned at the thought. Bethal nodded.

“Which is why the stomachs of the good folk of Nonsfru have profited immensely. As have any [Traders] who come by your farm. But you could be earning more, Mister Lupp.”

“I don’t need that much coin, Lady Bethal.”

“No. You don’t. But you might. If you fall sick. If you’d like to hire someone to help you harvest the crops. Or, perhaps, if you simply wanted to hire a [Hunter] to eradicate your crows.”

Bethal waved a hand at the fields. Sure enough, Lupp saw a flock circling. He cursed, but he was out of costume. Thomast glanced up and unsheathed his rapier. He thrust once, and after a second, a crow fell out of the sky in two pieces. The rest of the flock flew away. Lupp gaped at the man. Bethal smiled.

“Mister Lupp, you may not have much interest in a profit. But that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t avoid turning one. What if when you harvested this field, you agreed to sell your very delightful corn to me?”

“You, Lady Bethal? But would it be too much? Even supposing you fed your entire household…I suppose there might be hundreds in your service, come to think of it.”

Lupp eyed Bethal. She flashed him another smile.

“There are indeed. But I think I’d only keep some. The rest I’d put in storage and offer to a [Merchant] who caters to [Chefs] and other experts of cooking and good taste. I think I could get a silver piece for the corn. If not an entire piece, then certainly at least seven copper coins per ear or something equally pleasing. This is the best corn I have ever had. Would you let me take care of that?”

The [Farmer] stared at Bethal. He expected her to laugh, or tell him it was a joke, but she looked serious. Worse, she was holding a hand out.

“One harvest, Mister Lupp. And we can negotiate how much I take. But even if I took half, which I would not, you would be ahead…”

She broke off as Thomast put a hand on her shoulder. The [Chevalier] glanced at Lupp and shook his head.

“You’re disturbing him, Bethal.”

“Am I?”

Bethal blinked. Then she saw how pale Lupp had gotten. She stood up abruptly.

“Why?”

Lupp made a strangled sound.

“Why? Miss, no, [Lady]. It’s one thing for me to chase off a few [Assassins]. But you can walk into my farm and tell me I could earn twice, three times what I’ve ever earned? And you want me to sell to you? A [Lady]? Just like that?”

He stared up at Bethal. She looked uncomprehendingly at Thomast.

“Of course. Why would that be an issue?”

“Life isn’t that simple, Miss. Good fortune doesn’t just ride down like that.”

Lupp informed Bethal with all the authority he could muster. Bethal raised an eyebrow.

“In your experience, Mister Lupp?”

That silenced him. Thomast shook his head. He took Bethal’s shoulder.

“I think Mister Lupp needs a moment.”

“But Thomast—”

“Away, Bethal.”

He firmly pulled her back. Leaving Lupp together with his thoughts. He stared at Bethal and Thomast as they walked away. The [Lady] hissed at her husband.

“I nearly had talked him into it!”

“He was about to kick us both off his farm. Or run himself.”

Thomast gently chastised Bethal. She heard the tone in his voice and glared.

“Oh? And you think leaving him to sell his wonderful corn for a pittance is fair? Isn’t that the best corn you’ve had?”

“It is good. He must either be Level 30 or have a very specialized number of Skills. Probably both. And that’s probably why he has such a small field.”

Thomast picked some corn out from his teeth. Bethal tossed her head.

“Obviously. So why stop me?”

“Because you frightened him. This isn’t like the horses, Bethal. You can’t order him to give you all the corn he produces and make him rich.”

“Richer. Hardly rich.”

“Even so. It’s terrifying for him. And how could he trust you? He may have never seen a [Lady] before in his life. And you come into his life after leaving four people dead in front of his farm and make him the best offer of his life. Isn’t that frightening?”

Bethal thought about this. She hesitated and stared towards the road.

“I see your point. But his corn is delicious. And I’ve discovered him. Why shouldn’t I make him an offer that benefits both of us? That’s what the nobility does, Thomast.”

He didn’t reply. Bethal scowled.

“Oh, we fight. And send each other black roses. But our duty is to our lands. So we spend our gold and time and even our soldiers to benefit ourselves and our people. If a [Lady] is poor, she enriches only herself. But I don’t. And what I focus on prospers. Or is House Walchaís’ famous stock of horses not proof of that?”

“You told me you spent a fortune on horses on a whim when you were younger. It took you two decades to turn it into a profit.”

“Well, it worked, didn’t it?”

Thomast sighed.

“Go slowly, Bethal.”

“I can be slow. I just think that—”

“Your ladyship?”

The couple turned. [Farmer] Lupp had approached them, hat in hands. Deferentially, he bowed. Bethal scowled.

“Stop that. Don’t bow. I told you, call me Bethal.”

He stared at her. Then he awkwardly ducked his head.

“I beg your pardon, Bethal. But if you were serious, I would take you up on your offer. It sounds like a dream, but…seven copper pieces for an ear of corn? I’d be a rich man. And even if I don’t use it, I do have my old age to think about. I’m nearly there myself. And my daughter’s a [Shoemaker]. Not high-level. But if she had the right materials and a bigger shop, she might make something big of herself. So if you’d be willing, I’d take any deal you’d offer me. I can have this corn all harvested in two days. One if need be.”

Bethal cast a triumphant glance at her husband. He looked resigned as she turned back to Lupp with a huge smile.

“No need to hurry, Mister Lupp. We have to return to Reizmelt, and then our estates, I fear. But I promise you I will send a Runner in…say, three days? And I will have a contract with the Merchant’s Guild at that time.”

“I would be greatly honored if you did that, Miss Bethal.”

Lupp ducked his head, looking relieved. Shocked, still; you could see it on his face. Bethal had happily overturned his life in a second. And both she and Thomast saw it.

A moment of regret passed between the two. Bethal’s smile faded. She looked around at the quiet farm and the bodies on the road. She stared at them and shook her head. Then, quietly, she turned back to Lupp.

“I am sorry for disturbing your farm, Mister Lupp. But I keep my word. And if nothing else, your corn was the best I ever tasted. And my word is on that.”

She smiled. And Lupp managed one of his own.

“That’s all I wanted to hear, Bethal.”

She laughed in delight. And then she dug in her belt pouch.

“Fields of gold indeed. Well, let’s call this an advance. I expect to earn it back. So you can take this—”

Lupp glanced down. His eyes went round. He stared at the small pile of gold winking up at him. Actual gold, not corn. He looked at Bethal.

“—and you can use it to hire someone to help you if need be. Or at least hunt down those wretched crows. And if you were to expand your field, I could—Mister Lupp? Mister Lupp?”

The [Farmer] quietly, and without a word, toppled over. Thomast caught him before he hit the ground. He checked Lupp’s breathing, and then stared at his wife. Bethal had the grace to blush.



——



The pair of [Knights] in pink armor who galloped into Lupp’s farm found Bethal offering the man a stamina potion as he sat weakly on his porch. They galloped up the incline, weapons drawn, scanning for enemies. Lupp stared at the two [Knights] in their pink, pink armor and nearly fainted again. Bethal scowled at Sir Kerrig and Lady Welca.

“Enough of that! Can’t you see you’re scaring [Farmer] Lupp? Have the decency to show some decorum. The [Assassins] are long gone regardless.”

Lupp stared as the two sheepish [Knights] dismounted. Sir Kerrig immediately knelt.

“Lady Walchaís, I regret not being here myself—”

“Thomast was. And Mister Lupp. They were quite enough, and I raced off. You did your job. Stop apologizing and help Thomast get rid of the bodies.”

Bethal ushered the two [Knights] towards the road. Lupp stared at the pair as he sat back.

“They—they’re pink.”

“I thought it was an underused color in [Knight] heraldry. Those are my Knights of the Petal. I have very few of them compared to some [Knight] orders, but I am pleased to say they fall behind few on Izril.”

Bethal informed the [Farmer] pleasantly. He stared at her. Then he went back to staring at his corn. He tried to focus on his field and ignore the [Knights] digging some shallow graves with the [Chevalier] across the road.

“Lady Bethal?”

A quiet voice eventually made both Bethal and Mister Lupp look up. A somewhat dirty young woman in pink armor bowed to Lady Bethal. The [Lady] stood up.

“Welca. Did you find out who sent the roses?”

Welca looked nervous and unhappy.

“Yes, milady. They all came from their senders. The Guild confirmed it. One of the Runners was even approached by a [Knight] on the road. All of them are genuine.”

Bethal’s smile faded a bit. Her eyes flashed as she recalled the very reason she’d come out this far.

“I see. In that case, I think some action is appropriate, don’t you?”

She caught the look in Welca’s eye and sighed.

“No beheadings. Thomast was very clear on that. And I have to agree. I splendidly walked into one trap.”

She indicated the road, now clear of bodies. Thomast and Sir Kerrig trotted up the slope, and the impromptu war council was joined in front of Farmer Lupp’s porch. No one wanted more corn; the grave dirt somewhat cut down on Kerrig and Welca’s appetite.

“So, they are genuine. I knew it. And I told you, Thomast.”

“You did. But you needed to be calm to hear it, Bethal.”

Thomast calmly sat next to his wife. Bethal sighed, vexed.

“I suppose so. But it doesn’t change my feelings. They will pay. An insult must be repaid, whether to a [Lady] or [Farmer]. Don’t you agree, Mister Lupp?”

“I—I—ergh.”

Thomast smoothed his mustache as he interjected a quiet comment.

“The first thing we should do is inform Magnolia. The other [Ladies] of her circle might be in danger as well.”

Bethal sighed.

“If they were attacked, it is far too late for that. Magnolia knows by now, I’m sure.”

Lupp leaned over to Sir Kerrig and whispered.

“Is that Lady Magnolia Reinhart that Miss Bethal’s talking about? The Magnolia?”

The [Knight] nodded, watching Bethal and Thomast. Lupp had to take a walk to calm down. Bethal frowned.

“I don’t care about Magnolia’s game. Let her sort it out. If one of us is dead, there will be blood, Thomast. I’m only concerned with what I am going to do. And my estates. They should be warned.”

The [Chevalier] nodded.

“True. A [Message] spell would be swiftest.”

“Not if I want to mobilize the Knights of the Petal. They won’t answer to [Messages]. And rightly so, if this is some kind of intrigue with [Assassins]. I suppose we must hurry to Invrisil or pray there’s a Courier capable of delivering my message. Reizmelt doesn’t have a Courier, do they?”

Bethal looked hopelessly at her [Knights], both of whom shook their heads. Welca raised an armored hand.

“Lady Bethal, give me leave and I will deliver the [Message] to my peers myself. I can make the ride.”

“And leave Lady Walchaís undefended a second time?”

Sir Kerrig glanced at Welca. She flushed and lowered her hand. Bethal studied Welca thoughtfully.

“I only need one [Knight]. Plus Thomast. As long as one of you shields me, Thomast can kill anyone quite easily. We could send Welca. What do you think, Thomast? Thomast?”

The [Chevalier] was studying the skies. He looked down.

“I would rather send Sir Kerrig to fulfill a task, Bethal. We can ride back ourselves. It will take an hour or two, but we won’t lose much time either way.”

“Really? What do you want Sir Kerrig to do?”

Bethal frowned. Thomast raised an eyebrow.

“Send a message himself. I’ll tell you on the road. But we should be moving if we intend to return to Walchaís lands before dark.”

“Very well. So much for a vacation.”

Bethal stood up in disgust. The two Rose Knights were already on their feet and fetching the horses. Bethal and Thomast said goodbye to Lupp as he stood by his field of corn. The [Farmer] gripped Bethal’s hand lightly, sure that this was all some sort of dream. But her smile told him it was real.

“Goodbye, Mister Lupp. I’m afraid we must fly. Tell me, do you know if Reizmelt has a Courier? Otherwise we’ll be riding west as fast as we can.”

Thomast was talking to Sir Kerrig. The [Knight] nodded and mounted up. He galloped east as Welca held the reins of Bethal’s mare. Lupp blinked at Bethal.

“Reizmelt? No Couriers there, Miss. Some pass by of course, but unless you call for one, there won’t be any.”

“A pity. I won’t wait hours when we could be back quicker ourselves. We’ll be slower. Far slower if we need to avoid any more [Assassins] on the road. It might not matter.”

Bethal sighed exasperatedly. Lupp blinked at Bethal. Then his eyes widened.

“If it’s speed you need, Miss Bethal—I do know of one City Runner who might fit.”

“Really? Are they good?”

The [Lady] raised her brows. The [Farmer] ducked his head.

“I don’t know, Miss. I’ve never seen her run, except for a few seconds as she left. But they do call her the Wind Runner…”

And thus the play came full circle.



——



Ryoka Griffin held still. Very still, to control the beating of her heart as she stood in front of Lady Bethal Walchaís. She was taller than the woman, but Lady Bethal somehow felt at equal or greater height. The woman peered at Ryoka and frowned.

“So this is Reizmelt’s best City Runner?”

She stared at Ryoka’s feet. The young woman was instantly embarrassed. She stared at the young woman in pink armor standing behind Bethal instead. Lady Welca Caveis? So she was a [Lady] and a [Knight]? There was also the silent [Chevalier], Sir Thomast, who was giving Ryoka an inspection as well. But the older [Knight], Sir Kerrig, was gone.

Ryoka didn’t know what had happened, but she could piece together the clues. Sir Kerrig and Lady Welca had taken the Runners back to the guild and interrogated the [Receptionist] at length about the origin of the black roses. She had just confirmed that all of them were indeed sent by each group that had been represented—an arduous process that had taken nearly an hour in itself and left the Runners cooling their heels and talking anxiously—when news had come in like thunder.

From the [Mage]’s Guild. There had been multiple attacks by [Assassins] on a number of [Ladies]. All in public, and all affiliated with Lady Magnolia. That had been enough to make everyone in the Runner’s Guild wonder if there was a war starting between the nobility. But the two Rose Knights had taken off like bolts of lightning once Sir Kerrig got a [Message] spell on the little scroll he carried. No guesses why.

Neither Welca nor Sir Thomast looked like they’d just killed someone. Okay, maybe Welca did. But Ryoka couldn’t help but feel a prickle as she stared at Thomast’s blade. Why else would the [Knights] have rushed off? And where was Sir Kerrig?

And why had Lady Bethal immediately gone to the Runner’s Guild on returning to Reizmelt, nearly an hour later, and demanded to see Ryoka of all people? It was a mystery. But Ryoka thought at least one piece was about to be unraveled now. If only Bethal would stop staring.

“You run with bare feet? Don’t you get thorns or rocks in your soles?”

The [Lady] wrinkled her nose as she pointed at Ryoka’s feet. The City Runner stared at her.

“I, uh, have calluses. Lady Bethal.”

The [Lady] stared at her.

“And those help? What about nails?”

“I try to avoid those.”

“Ah. Tell me, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Are you fast? How many movement Skills do you have?”

“Uh—I have three. But none of them help me run faster. Just longer. My speed’s at a City Runner’s level.”

“I see. And how about your defenses? Could you outrun, say, [Bandits] on horseback?”

Ryoka’s pulse picked up. She tried to answer carefully.

“No. But I could deter them. Or lose them. I have Tripvine Bags, potions, and these—”

She reached into her bag of holding. Welca tensed, and Bethal held up a hand.

“Show me.”

Ryoka pulled out a caltrop. Bethal eyed it.

“That is a nasty weapon. Do you throw it?”

“Sometimes. But I can drop them, and they’ll slow horses. I’m banned from using them unless my life is in danger. And they are a hazard.”

“You could certainly inconvenience a road with them. And they’re fairly pointy. Ouch.”

Bethal poked her finger idly on the caltrop. She shook her head.

“What about [Mages]? High-level enemies?”

“I…have a wind Skill that I can use to blow a dust cloud, Lady Bethal. I’ve outrun [Bandits] before and survived an ambush on one occasion.”

“Hmm. Can you block lightning?”

Ryoka gulped.

“I…haven’t had to deal with that. There was a Lich that I managed to avoid one time.”

“I see. I see…Thomast?”

Bethal glanced up. The [Chevalier] was frowning. His arms were folded. He was glancing at Alime. The [Receptionist] was half-hiding behind her counter, staring at the noble guests with wide eyes; besides Ryoka, Lady Bethal’s entourage, and Alime, the Runner’s Guild had been cleared out. Ryoka could see some of her fellow Runners furtively peeking in from outside.

“I don’t think she’s fit for the job, Bethal.”

Thomast answered at last. Ryoka’s stomach sank. The [Chevalier] eyed her.

“With respect to Miss Griffin—she’s no Courier. It would be dangerous to risk a City Runner. She could lose her life, and if she’s intercepted, the message could be disastrous for us.”

“That was my thought. Alas, we’ve wasted a few minutes. We’ll have to go back on horseback. Oh well. Mister Lupp can’t be full of good ideas all the time, it seems.”

Bethal clicked her fingers exasperatedly. Ryoka stared at her. Did she just say Lupp? No, that had to be a coincidence. The young woman saw Bethal turn, and realized her opportunity was slipping away. She raised her voice hurriedly.

“I can do it.”

“Excuse me?”

Bethal turned back to Ryoka skeptically. The Asian girl took a deep breath.

“I’m sorry. I don’t know what the request is. But if you’re looking for a qualified City Runner—I might not have the speed of a Courier, but I have never failed a delivery. And I have outrun monsters. I’ve run the High Passes before.”

Thomast’s head turned back to Ryoka. Bethal blinked.

“You have? How far in?”

“Not far. But I completed my delivery. And I’ve done emergency deliveries for adventuring teams.”

“What rank?”

Ryoka hesitated.

“Silver. I’ve never been requested at Gold-rank or higher.”

Bethal exchanged a look with her husband. He frowned and gave her a covert shake of the head. Lady Walchaís sighed.

“If it were just your life, I might give you a chance Miss Griffin. But this message must be delivered without fail. I’d risk the consequences of it arriving too late, rather than having my words subverted. And if you are caught? You will most likely be killed, and the damage will spread to my lands.”

She spread her hands. Ryoka’s heart sank. She nodded slowly.

“I understand.”

“Very well. Welca? The horses. We’ll press onwards as Thomast sees fit.”

Bethal sighed and waved a hand. The female [Knight] tromped towards the doors. As she opened them, Ryoka heard some excited shouts. Which surprised her; the City Runners and people of Reizmelt were already backing up from the fearsome Lady Bethal. But someone was calling out with an excited voice.

“Miss [Knight]! Miss [Knight]!”

“Did you kill any [Assassins]? Is it true they have a Guild?”

“Is [Lady] Bethal a real lady? Is she really going to cut off the heads of other nobles?”

“Are you going to hire the Wind Runner?”

Welca stopped, looking affronted. Bethal’s head turned towards the door. And Ryoka recognized the voices as she saw the tiny bodies hopping up and down.

Children. They were as immune to the fear of Lady Bethal’s class as they were to Welca’s scowl. The [Knight] ushered them back from the horses. Lady Bethal walked outside. The children stared at her. They oohed as Thomast followed her. He blinked at them. One of the children pointed at his side.

“Did you kill them all with your rapier?”

He didn’t respond. Bethal smiled as she accepted the reins of her mare. Ryoka walked out of the guild, sheepish. To her great chagrin, the children grew even more excited when they saw her than when Bethal had come out.

“Wind Runner! Wind Runner!”

“Are you going to deliver a message?”

“Blow us about! Conjure the wind, Miss Ryoka!”

They swarmed her. Ryoka turned red as Bethal glanced down from horseback. The [Lady] pursed her lips and called down to Ryoka.

“The Wind Runner? The [Farmer] said the same thing. What does that mean?”

“I can call the wind, Lady Bethal. It helps me out. It’s…just a nickname.”

Ryoka coughed and shuffled her feet. The children piped up.

“She can do more than that! She nearly blew me off my feet!”

“She’s fast!”

“And she killed Wailer Frogs with the wind!”

Intrigued, Bethal looked down as Ryoka tried to hush the children. She glanced at her husband. Thomast sighed.

“Bethal…”

“If she can do that, maybe, Thomast. Miss Ryoka. Show me. Prove it.”

Bethal turned back to Ryoka. The young woman blinked up at her.

“Show you what? The wind?”

The [Lady] raised a delicate eyebrow.

“At the very least. Show me your Skill. Or magic, or whatever it may be. I won’t send a City Runner to her death. But if you can do something out of the ordinary…”

She glanced around the windless, empty street skeptically. Ryoka stared at her. And then she shrugged.

“What kind of wind would you like?”

“If you have to conjure it. Anything, Miss Griffin. I just want to see something, even if it only ruffles my hair—”

Bethal’s voice cut off. She frowned at her hair, blowing across her face. She stared at Ryoka.

“Well. I suppose that is possible. But can you make a larger breeze? Something—”

She blinked. Now her riding dress was ruffling. Bethal smoothed the dress as the children around her laughed and clapped their hands.

“And is that it?”

Ryoka wiped at her forehead.

“It’s something. That’s control, Miss Walchaís. If you want a gust, I can do something stronger. But I’d have to include more than just you.”

“More than just me? What do you—”

Bethal looked around. And then she saw it. The wind was blowing her hair and her dress. Her horse’s mane blew in the wind. But Sir Thomast, standing next to her, was unruffled. His clothes didn’t move an inch. And neither did Welca. The children on the street were running about, begging Ryoka for a breeze.

And on the street, the air was silent. The Runners and people of Reizmelt looked up. Lady Bethal sat in a small cyclone of wind. She looked through it at Ryoka. The City Runner’s eyebrow was raised. Ryoka grinned.

Uh oh. She’s going to kill me.

She waited for Bethal to explode in fury like before. But the [Lady] just blinked at the wind. And then she laughed. And her laughter was carried away on the breeze.

“Well! Can you show me a gust, then, Wind Runner?”

The air quieted. And then the wind blew harder. The children laughed, and some sailed down the street with their cloth sails. The adults shielded their faces, and the horses tossed their heads. Bethal blinked as a gust swept towards her. The wind blew past Bethal and Thomast, whipping at her hair. The [Chevalier] looked up and shifted, sheltering his wife from the breeze. The wind blew harder still. Lady Bethal shielded her face. One of the Runners lost his balance and slipped, catching himself in the wind.

And Ryoka held still in the street. The air howled around her, but she called on it. She dared the wind to blow, to whip Bethal’s hair across her face. She dared because not daring would have been pathetic. She had one chance. And when she saw Bethal raise a palm, Ryoka asked the wind to stop.

And it was still. Reizmelt’s street was eerily silent in the sudden absence of the wind. Bethal looked at Thomast. He raised his brows. The [Lady] turned to Ryoka. She nodded.

“Give it to her, Thomast.”

“You’re sure?”

The woman gave Thomast a flat look.

“Today I met a [Farmer] and tasted the best corn of my life. Today I was called a coward by my peers. One more chance seems worthwhile. Do it, please. It’s not as if you don’t have another.”

Thomast sighed. But he dismounted and walked over to Ryoka. She stared up at him. He bent.

“Miss Griffin. This is your proof. Do not lose it. Your destination is the grandmaster of the Knights of the Petal. Sir Nathald. And here is your message.”

He bent his head to whisper. The world went silent around Ryoka for a second. Sound returned as Thomast stepped back. Ryoka blinked, wide-eyed. Then she schooled her face.

“I have it word-for-word.”

Lady Bethal laughed.

“In that case, your destination is west. We’re heading there ourselves. But each hour you gain on us is another hour that may matter. So.”

She pointed towards Reizmelt’s western gates as Thomast mounted up. Lady Bethal pointed. And her voice rang across the street.

“Go! Show me what you can do, Wind Runner! Run and let no one stop you.”

She gestured. Ryoka bowed. She bent and adopted a sprinter’s crouch. But she didn’t take off. As Lady Bethal frowned, the wind blew again. The [Lady] looked up and then down. Ryoka was reaching for her belt pouch. She drew something small and blue, a faint statue, and grasped it in her right hand.

“Well. I’m no expert. But you said it just happens. So here I go, Ivolethe.”

The young woman looked up at the sky. The ice was cold in her hand. Ryoka took a deep breath, and then another. The wind picked up and blew harder as Bethal urged her mount back. She leaned against her husband, who drew a riding cloak around her. Ryoka held still, staring upwards.

She would never have another chance like this. Maybe there would be more important deliveries. Maybe riskier ones. But this was the first run of this kind she had done. One where people might stop her, where important decisions rested on her shoulders. She had run before, to save lives. And this was different from that.

But no less important. Ryoka looked at Bethal. The client wanted her to be as fast and as true as possible. So Ryoka clutched the ice until it felt like the cold was burning her skin. She stared up at the sky as the wind blew harder. Runners shaded their faces, and the children shouted and clutched at pieces of cloth, blowing down the street.

The [Guards] on the gates of Reizmelt held their ground, swearing, and the citizens covered their faces and retreated to the shelter of stone as the wind whipped at them, sending grit and debris into the air. And still, Ryoka waited.

“Come on. Is that all? Blow, winds. Let’s show them what magic means.”

And the winds blew. They picked up, stronger and stronger. Bethal shielded her face, laughing with delight. Ryoka stared up, as the wind grabbed at her, pushing at her back, urging her to run. But she held her ground. Waiting. Waiting until she could fly.

Then she felt it. And she took off. Racing past the startled horses as Lady Bethal’s mare reared. Past the children, sailing across the street and calling her name. Past Runners who took off, trying to race her and falling behind. Faster, faster—



——



They were waiting for her. A group of [Mercenaries]. And a band of adventurers. And they were led by one very upset, very unprofessional [Assassin]. But they were still here, waiting to fall upon the City Runner when she emerged from the city.

No one was happy about it. Not the [Mercenaries], who swore up and down that they wouldn’t risk a confrontation with House Walchaís or her Knights of the Petal—just the City Runner. Not the [Assassin], whose only goal was vengeance and to strike a blow against Bethal Walchaís and her husband, however small. And least of all the adventurers.

One of them edged closer to her leader. Tally, the [Ranger], hissed at their Captain, a [Fire Mage] who’d been all too quick to take the black-clad stranger’s gold, in her opinion. She’d done shady things as an adventurer, but this crossed a line. She soothed the team’s war hound by scratching the dog behind the ears while she hissed at him.

“Levil, this is insane. Are you completely mad? We’re going to sully our name, taking this contract. And what if it’s someone we know?”

“Tally, shush.”

The [Fire Mage] rubbed his hands, absently sending a few sparks falling to the ground. He was nervous. But Tally wouldn’t shut up.

“Have you seen our employer? This isn’t a contract, Levil. I’m not even sure if that shady fellow’s legitimate. His gold’s real, but is he really an [Assassin] from the Assassin’s Guild or a faker?”

She nodded at the shrouded figure arguing with the [Mercenary Captain] opposite them. Levil turned and sighed. Then he hissed at Tally.

“Would you shut up? I know what I’m doing! Just watch the gates, will you?”

“I won’t! We’re the Pithfire Hounds, not mercs or murderers! Either pull out of the deal or I’m walking and so’s the team! We’re not killing an innocent City Runner, no matter if it is Lady Bethal Walchaís or whatever who’s sending the message! That’s politics! We’re not for the Reinharts or against them or anything!”

Tally’s stomach twisted at the thought. They weren’t nearly high level enough to play at politics in Izril. Levil just glared at her.

“Are you deaf? Didn’t you hear what that [Assassin] said? Lady Bethal’s at the Runner’s Guild. So she wants to send a message fast. By Runner, since [Message] spells can be faked or intercepted.”

“So?”

Tally gave Levil a blank look. The [Pyromancer] growled, and their war dog, Makki, growled as well.

“So she’s going to hire the best Runner in the city. And Reizmelt has no Couriers. Who’s the best City Runner in Reizmelt, then?”

The [Ranger]’s eyes widened.

“You don’t mean—oh. But why are we—”

“We’re aiming left. Wait for my signal. Why do you think everyone else isn’t giving me grief? They’ve figured it out!”

Levil hissed back. Tally turned bright red. She looked at her teammates. Keima rolled her eyes. Lamont, Bram, Ullica…they were checking their weapons. Levil met their eyes and nodded.

As one, the Pithfire Hounds looked left. The [Mercenary] band glanced up. One of them eyed the war dog uneasily from his mount.

“You lot ready? We need to hit whoever’s coming out fast.”

“Don’t worry about us. We’re fast. And we’re ready.”

Levil conjured an orb of fire. The [Mercenary] nodded shortly. He glanced up at the Pithfire Hounds as the adventurers casually glanced at the city. Now Tally was picking out a target. Levil nudged her.

“Stop being obvious.”

“I’m sorry, do you want me to help or not?”

“If you weren’t so bad at hiding things, I wouldn’t have to keep anything from you. Which is rich, because you’re our [Ranger]!”

“Bite him, Makki.”

The dog sniffed the air. Then she howled. The [Mercenaries], Pithfire Hounds, and lone [Assassin] looked. Up. Levil stared at Reizmelt. Then he glanced up.

“The wind’s gone flat.”

“What is that?”

The [Fire Mage]’s head snapped back down. His eyes widened. Someone was coming out of the gates of the city.

“That’s her.”

“That’s the City Runner! Get her!”

The [Assassin]’s voice cracked with fury. The [Mercenaries] mounted up in an instant. Three were on horseback, four on foot. Two [Mages]. Just like the Pithfire Hounds. Levil held up a hand as his team tensed.

“Wait for it—”

The three [Mercenaries] on horseback came down the slope with shouts. One had a bow. Levil began to swing his hand down. Then he saw the figure racing out of Reizmelt’s gates disappear. Something billowed up around her. Levil stared as the [Mercenaries] pulled up their horses uncertainly. Tally blinked.

“Sand?”

It was sand. Dirt and sand, being picked up from the road. From Ryoka’s bag. It blew upwards. And Levil saw a familiar shape emerge.

A billowing dust cloud, a hundred paces high, blew across the road. It raced across the earth, a vortex of sand and dust and debris. It whirled, a miniature twister. Just like the one that had saved his team. But as the [Fire Mage] watched, he noticed one key difference.

“She’s in it.”

The whirlwind blew down the road. But the City Runner did not emerge from it, or run behind it. She was in the vortex. And the [Mercenaries] on horseback drew up, reluctant to even go near the dust.

“It’s just sand! Get in there! Kill the Runner!”

The [Assassin] bellowed, losing his cool. The [Mercenary Captain] shook his head. He pointed a staff towards the whirlwind.

“We’ll never catch her with horses. They’ll go blind a hundred paces out. Net spells. I’ll throw a fireball straight down the tornado. You, adventurers, help us—”

“Now.”

Levil turned. He pointed a wand left and spoke a word.

“[Fireball].”

The [Mercenary Captain]’s eyes widened in horror. He raised his staff, but it was too late. The bloom of fire blasted towards Levil, and he felt the rush of heat. Makki raced forwards, barking, and the three [Mercenaries] on horseback turned.

“Pithfire Hounds, forwards! Take them out!”

Keima, Lamont, and Ullica charged. The [Assassin] leapt out of the ashes, cursing. He raised a trembling shortsword.

“You dirty adv—”

Tally’s arrow sprouted from his stomach. He grabbed the arrow, and Levil blasted him with fire. The [Assassin] fell backwards, and Levil turned. The dust cloud was racing west. He saluted it, then joined his team.

“Past favor repaid. But mostly profit. Good luck, Wind Runner.”

The Pithfire Hounds closed on the remaining [Mercenaries]. The wind blew west. At her desk, Alime, the [Receptionist], stared at the cloud over the roofs of the city. She could see it, even through the window. Shakily, she looked around. Then she snapped at one of the other [Receptionists] on duty.

“Time it. Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, left Reizmelt at half past noon. Tell the Runner’s Guild in Walta to time her arrival. This run’s going to define her. Tell them to expect her. And tell them—here comes Reizmelt’s Wind Runner.”



——



It wasn’t a simple run. And it wasn’t quick, either. Each step was blowing wind. As the dust picked up, Ryoka ran through a cloud of sand and grit. She could see ahead of her—barely ten feet. So she followed the road. She followed her instincts. And the whirling dust around her cleared and shifted as the first minute became an hour.

Her lungs burned. Her arms pumped. And Ryoka ran. She didn’t pace herself. She didn’t slow down. She just kept the same, furious pace she’d started with. As if she could keep it up forever. And for the first hour, she could. The blowing wind, the urgency of her task, Lady Bethal’s daring, it kept her going.

But then she faltered. Ryoka slowed, going from signpost to signpost. The dust dropped out of the air. She looked around wildly as the wind slowed. Pursuers? Ambushes?

She had no idea. She couldn’t slow. But an hour in and Ryoka had blown through her reserves. If this was a marathon or a race—and it was—she was overtaxed. In her world, she would have been a fool.

“In my world.”

Ryoka spat as she checked the signpost again. She grabbed a potion from her belt and downed it as she ran left, down the main road for Walta. The stamina potion burned its way down her throat. And suddenly, Ryoka felt more energy burning from her legs. She took a breath and ran.

The wind picked back up. A procession of wagons on the road halted, and the drivers cursed. But the dust cloud had emerged once again, and nothing could stop Ryoka. She ran. But her reinvigorated body could only go so far. After ten minutes, she began to flag.

Healing potion. This time her aching bare feet healed after a single mouthful. Her legs felt strong again. Ryoka picked up her pace. And time stretched on.



——



No pacing. No slowing from that mad run. Stamina potion again, the instant Ryoka felt her pace slow. And then another healing potion. The shots of energy and relief ran through her like the strongest energy drink. So much concentrated energy it felt like poison.

Which it was.

The second hour was no better than the first. The third hurt worst of all. By the fourth, Ryoka had stopped processing the trauma. Her body was healing, refilling itself with energy. Now she felt like more machine than person. She drank down the last drop of her stamina potion.

She was running as fast as she could, in the center of the vortex of sand. It had blown out twice, but the winds faithfully picked up the grit Ryoka poured out of her bag of holding. And Ryoka was still running.



——



Sprinting, racing across the ground. As fast as she had ever run.

The fourth empty bottle hit the ground as Ryoka dropped it, heedless of littering. She felt the rush of energy pour through her limbs, and she picked up the pace again, as if she had just begun running, not started four hours ago. And she was getting close.

“Clear winds.”

Ryoka gasped. The sand cleared from the wind, allowing her to see ahead of herself. She knew where to go. The signs told her she was getting closer to Walta. But she still had far to go.

And she was flagging. The third stamina bottle shook in Ryoka’s grip. Her entire body was shaking. And when she finally forced the liquid down her throat, it burned and hurt. Ryoka felt sick. But she couldn’t stop. If she stopped, she’d collapse.



——



The potions hurt now. As bad as mana potion sickness. But she was closer. Ryoka could feel it. The winds were at her back, propelling her forwards. She didn’t have the strength for the dust cloud. Or—or was it that the winds sensed her weakening spirit? Either way, they had slackened.

But they still blew. And she still ran. Her feet were cut up. Ryoka took a mouthful of healing potion and threw up as she ran. Too many potions. She gulped down one last mouthful and ran. Fast—as fast as—

If you can’t run faster, even with magic, what’s the point?

A laughing, running demon was urging her onwards. He was a black shadow against the tunnel of Ryoka’s vision. She chased him across a field, across roads, around large wagons and shouting voices. Hands dragged at her. Horses raced past her. They wanted to drag her down. But the wind blew, and no one touched her.

Fast. Faster. So many potions. Ryoka threw one behind her. She didn’t know if she’d drunk it or not. Or if she’d even opened it. Had it been full? She staggered.

The ground was harder. Not dirt anymore. Ryoka looked around. Something—a bright blue shape beckoned her right. And ahead. Ryoka ran after it, as fast as she could.

The tunnel was getting longer. The darkness more profound. Ryoka paused to throw up on a rock. The rock moved, shouted, and kicked at her. She staggered.

“Sorry.”

“What the hell are you—what kind of trash Street Runner are you?”

The rock turned into a person. A staring Centaur. A Centaur. Ryoka focused on her as she wiped her mouth. The Centaur was standing and pointing at her filthy leg. Ryoka leaned on her.

“Sorry. Where am I?”

“Walta’s Runner’s Guild! You just came in here and—hey! HEY!”

Ryoka pushed past the Centaur Runner. Centaur Runner? The desk swam in front of her. She saw a woman rising behind it.

“Ryoka Griffin?”

“That’s me. I haven’t run in a circle, have I? Alime?”

Ryoka glanced around. The guild looked so familiar. The [Receptionist] shook her head.

“I’m not Alime. You’ve been running for hours. You outran three ambush parties.”

“I did? I didn’t even notice them. I—I have a delivery. For the Grandmaster of the Petal Knights. Sir Nathald.”

“I know. He’s on his way. You’re sick. Miss Griffin. How many potions did you take?”

“Six? Eight?”

Ryoka heard a mutter. The woman turned to a patch of darkness on Ryoka’s left, and then to her.

“Healing and stamina?”

“Maybe.”

“Help her throw up.”

“I’m fine. I did—”

Ryoka felt an unfriendly finger in her throat. She gagged. And then she did throw up. The world hazed out, and then stopped being so dark. Someone was offering her something. Ryoka tasted water. The [Receptionist] was bending over her when Ryoka looked up.

“The [Knights] are here for you, Miss Griffin.”

The young woman just wanted to lie on the ground. But somehow, that got her up. She clutched her side, the bag of holding she’d refused to let anyone touch.

“Okay. I have it right here. I’m—”

She got up with someone’s help. The [Receptionist] pulled Ryoka to her feet with the angry Centaur. She pushed Ryoka to a group of pink people.

“One more thing. Miss Griffin. You just ran seventy-nine miles in less than five and a half hours. And that’s as the bird flies. You’ve passed the qualifying speed for a Courier.”

“Oh?”

Ryoka blinked at the woman. She turned and staggered past her.

“I had help. The wind’s with me.”

The arm holding her snorted. The half-horse girl dragged Ryoka forwards, her hooves clopping on the ground.

“Centaurs are faster. This one’s half-dead.”

“She outran three ambush parties. The first is wiped out. The other two never even caught her—”

“I never even saw…”

Ryoka blinked and stopped. Her vision swam clearer. A group of pink…[Knights] were assembled in front of her. Three dozen. A man with a grey beard and hair removed his helmet.

“Miss Ryoka Griffin?”

“That’s me. Who’re you?”

“Sir Nathald. We were told to expect you. You have a [Message] of utmost importance for us. Do you have proof of Lady Walchaís’ authority?”

“I do.”

Ryoka blinked. She nodded her head and nearly fell over. Sir Nathald and the Centaur girl caught her. She stared hard at the [Knight].

“Do—do you have proof you’re all Rose Knights?”

The pink-armored [Knights] glanced at each other, bemused and amused. The Centaur snorted. Sir Nathald didn’t laugh. He reached out and offered Ryoka something.

“Here. Will this suffice?”

It was a seal. Custom-made. Ryoka studied it. It was a match of the seal that Bethal had shown her. The unique rose-quartz melded with the crimson wood would be very hard to forge. She nodded.

“Pretty good. Got more proof?”

“The Runner’s Guild vouches for them. Show them your proof, Miss Griffin.”

The [Receptionist] appeared in Ryoka’s view. The Runner gave up. She reached for her bag of holding and pulled something out. It was tiny and cold in her hand. It chimed softly as she held it out.

“Here’s mine.”

A silver bell. It was much worn, scratched on the side. The [Knight] peered at it close, noting two of the scratches. He nodded after a second.

“Sir Thomast’s. He would never give it up. And it’s genuine.”

“You’re sure, sir?”

“A [Fencer]’s bell. I’m sure. Pardon me, [Receptionist] Clavine. Please clear your Guild. What is your message, Miss Griffin?”

Ryoka felt people moving around her. She blinked up at Sir Nathald.

“Password. Thomast told me…Bethal says that Sir Tipel’s favorite steed is a warhorse. But a Griffin would be much more desirable if he had the courage to tame it. But Lady Walchaís has always wanted to ride—”

“A Kraken.”

Sir Nathald’s voice was amused. Ryoka nodded.

“Double authentication complete. Here’s the message. Thomast sent it. Bethal’s been sent black roses. People tried to kill her.”

Amid the gasps of the Rose Knights, Ryoka leaned forwards. She tried very, very hard not to throw up into Sir Nathald’s ear as she whispered.

“And this is what he wants you to do…”

She looked up at him. Sir Nathald’s face didn’t change one bit.

“Of course. We’ll lock down the border at once. You five, secure the estate. Eighteen will ride to escort Lady Walchaís and Sir Thomast home. The rest of you—with me.”



——



“They’ve received Ryoka Griffin’s message and confirmed it. An escort is riding towards us now.”

Thomast announced as he checked the [Message] scroll. Bethal sighed, slightly relieved as she checked the forest road ahead of her.

“Good.”

“We need a more secure way of communicating, Bethal. Something that can’t be blocked. Or else next time the Order of the Petal might not be able to trust our communications.”

Thomast rolled up the magical scroll. Bethal smiled crookedly.

“That City Runner seemed to do the job. But I agree. In a world where we can watch what’s happening in Baleros, we still can’t trust [Message] spells. Couriers and Runners are still more reliable. I’ll ask if Magnolia has some artifact stashed away. Or else we’ll simply have more [Knights] do the delivering of messages.”

“Agreed. But for now, you and I will ride with at least an escort of six at all times.”

Thomast turned to Bethal. She sighed.

“Very well. Now will you tell me where Sir Kerrig went? If my safety is so important.”

“His task is just as important. It’s an affair of honor.”

“Which means?”

Bethal rode next to Thomast and leaned against him. He smiled.

“I simply told them to act in a manner I felt befitting. No deaths. No war. So he’s going to find the Order of Clairei Fields. I understand their representatives were still close to the city. And he’ll…”

Thomast whispered into Bethal’s ear for a moment. She blinked.

“Thomast! Him and Sir Nathald? The entire order? Really?”

Bethal shot up in her saddle, delighted and shocked. Thomast reached out and stroked her hair.

“I never said I wasn’t angry. And I never said you had to let it all slide.”

She looked at him and laughed. Then she reached out. He held her hand.

“Thomast? I do love you.”

“I never doubted it.”



——



It was a proper inn. The best in the city. The [Innkeeper] was quite prosperous. His tables were polished to perfection, and he employed a [Chef] with [Advanced Cooking]. His drinks were famous, locally, at least. And his beds were as soft as could be.

And they were [Knights] so, of course, they found their way there. The six [Knights] of the Clairei Order were toasting each other after a long journey on the road.

“Six days from the Order’s headquarters. And six days back. Six deliveries, when a single junior [Knight] might have made it themselves.”

The [Knight] speaking, a young man with the beginnings of a mustache, grimaced. His companions did likewise as they toasted him. Six mugs clinked, and they all downed their drinks. The speaker wiped his mouth with a sigh. At least the alcohol took the edge off.

Sir Molte of the Clairei Knights, rumored to have the fastest [Knights] on the entire continent, was about to think up another toast. It had been a long journey, and he was in the mood to drink. The proof lay in the three rounds of mugs that had already been taken away, and the satisfied smile on the [Innkeeper]’s face. The Clairei Knights were downing their fourth round when the door opened.

“Good evening, Sir Knight!”

The [Innkeeper]’s voice made Sir Molte glance up. For a second, Molte wondered if a seventh member of their order had joined them by chance. But one look towards the open door instantly disproved that theory.

A man wearing polished, bright, pink armor stepped into the inn, looking around. He had a quite handsome face, but his armor? You couldn’t call it a pale red, or a light purple. There was no getting around it. It was pink. And there was only one order on all of Izril, no, surely, the entire world who sported that unfortunate color.

Sir Molte eyed the man’s bright, pink armor and repressed his amusement. Some of the other Clairei Knights were less circumspect. Molte heard a chuckle and a snort. He waved them to silence and stood up as the [Knight] walked past the [Innkeeper].

“Sir Rose Knight! Come join us! It’s always welcome to have a fellow knight errant at the table!”

“Pink or yellow, it matters not!”

One of the other [Knights] called out. There was a chuckle from the Clairei Knights, and a cautious chuckle from the other tables nearby. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. But the Rose Knight walked towards the six Clairei Knights as if that had been his intention all along. He removed his helmet and carefully put it into a bag of holding at his side.

Sir Molte eyed the bag of holding with envy, and then took a good look at the armor. Of course, the Knights of the Petal were renowned for their nigh-unbreakable armor. The quality of their arms—Molte nearly choked on his drink as he saw the battleaxe on the [Knight]’s back. Now there was a weapon no one in the Order of Clairei Fields would ever dream of using! He half-rose and beckoned for a chair.

“Come and sit, Ser. I am Sir Molte. Will you drink with us?”

The other [Knight] was clearly a good deal older than the young Clairei Knights. And that demanded respect, even if the armor did not. The Clairei Knights schooled their merriment. The Rose Knight looked at them. Then he shook his head.

“I’m afraid my business does not allow me to drink. But I do have business with you, sir. And your order.”

“Oh?”

Sir Molte looked up. There was an aspect of the older [Knight]’s tone that Molte didn’t like. He reassured himself that his sword and shield were still on his person and his comrades numbered five. The [Knight] was alone.

“Indeed, sir. I understand you were one of the [Knights] who delivered a gift. A parcel to six [Ladies] around these lands. As far south as Invrisil and as far north as First Landing.”

Sir Molte jumped. One of his fellows dropped her mug with an oath. Molte stared up at the Rose Knight. That was a secret mission from his order’s grandmaster!

“You seem to have come by way of precious information to our order, Ser Rose Knight. May I ask how you know what our task was?”

“By tomorrow, I imagine the world will know of what was sent. Already, half of Izril does. Your task, Sir Molte and companions, was to deliver a flower. To Lady Bethal Walchaís, among others. Did you know that?”

The [Knights] shook their heads, puzzled. The Rose Knight gave them a mirthless smile.

“Well, perhaps it is as well. But your order’s grandmaster surely knew the flower and message that was sent. You only knew the item was to be sent as a token of the Order of Clairei Field’s will.”

“Goodwill, surely.”

One of the [Knights] next to Molte protested. The Rose Knight stared at him, and the younger man went silent.

“If that is goodwill, then Rhir overflows with kindness, sir. The item sent to Lady Bethal was none other than a black rose. A mark of cowardice among Izril’s nobility as I understand it.”

The six [Knights] went silent. Sir Molte, who had been raised as a [Lord] and understood something of flowers, went suddenly pale. The Rose Knight nodded.

“You may imagine my [Lady]’s displeasure. And it was curious that the Order of Clairei Fields would impugn Lady Bethal Walchaís’ honor so. She fought during the Sacrifice of Roses. Or were you not aware?”

He leaned over the table. Sir Molte began sweating. He forced a smile.

“Ser Knight—I’ve not caught your name. My fellow [Knights] and I cannot speak for our order, much less our grandmaster, but I’m sure the reasons for whatever—discourtesy was afforded Lady Walchaís were known.”

“Such as her dishonorable conduct towards Lord Tyrion and the allies of the realm. Not to mention her sabotage at the siege of Liscor.”

One of the other Clairei Knights muttered. Sir Molte shot his friend a look. This was not the time for politics. The Rose Knight’s face didn’t change.

“I’m sure the Order of Clairei Fields has any number of reasons. But a discourtesy is a discourtesy. Which is why I’ve come here. At the behest of Sir Thomast, consort and husband to Lady Bethal Walchaís. I am Sir Kerrig Louis, by the way, Sir Molte.”

“Ah. Well met. And you are here to do what, exactly, Sir Kerrig?”

Molte held still. He wasn’t reaching for his sword. It would be inconceivable to draw steel on the man, and moreover, he was alone. Wasn’t he? Molte glanced at the door and saw the [Innkeeper] hurrying over.

“Sir Knight! Why don’t you have a seat? I have a number of rooms—private and public! And a drink for the long road! The inn’s finest!”

He had a mug brimming with the sweetest of ales. The inn held its breath as the Rose Knight regarded the beverage. The Clairei Knights held still.

At last, Sir Kerrig accepted the mug. The world exhaled. Sir Kerrig lifted the mug to his lips and Molte raised his and cried out in relief.

“A toast, then! To good honor and the Knights of the Petal!”

Six mugs rose with his. The Clairei Knights. And Sir Kerrig. He lifted his mug. And then, slowly and deliberately, poured the contents over Sir Molte’s head.

The inn went silent. Molte stared at the liquid dribbling down his armor as the [Innkeeper] fled. The Clairei Knight shot to his feet with a roar of fury. Without missing a beat, Sir Kerrig swung the mug and smashed it into the man’s face.

The stout wood mug cracked. Sir Molte’s face did much the same. He staggered back and landed on the table. It collapsed under him with a crash. The other Clairei Knights cried out in shock and got to their feet. Sir Kerrig tossed the handle of his mug aside. He raised his voice until it echoed around the inn.

“I will not drink with cowards who send insults to smear my [Lady]’s name. Nor will I stand idly by to watch churls and base scum take the class of [Knight]. I am Sir Kerrig of the Knights of the Petal. The Clairei Knights are now the enemies of my order, until proper redress is made to our [Lady]. As such, I challenge all of you to a duel of fisticuffs.”

He raised a hand and made a fist. The Order of Clairei Fields stared at him. Then one of them drew a sword with an oath.

“You’ll answer that insult with steel, you bastard!”

She rose from her chair. Sir Kerrig slowly put one hand on the haft of the battleaxe on his back. He lifted it out of the harness. The Clairei Knights froze as the enchanted battleaxe sparked with lightning. Sir Kerrig looked at them.

“If you would like to make this a contest of arms, I would not object. If not, I would sheathe that sword, young lady. But arms or not, you will answer to me here.”

The [Knights] froze. They looked at each other. The female [Knight] eyed her plain, steel sword and sheathed it slowly. Sir Kerrig lowered his battleaxe. He nodded.

“Very well. In that case—”

A groggy Sir Molte’s first sign something was wrong was when he felt himself being picked up. Then Sir Molte flew. He crashed through one of the windows of the inn and landed on the ground. Sir Kerrig calmly throttled the second [Knight].

“The Order of the Petal draws no blood unless necessary. We are all sons and daughters of Izril. This should not come to beheadings or violence. So Sir Thomast has proclaimed. With that said?”

He gripped the [Knight], ran him forwards, and smashed him into the wall. The [Knight] collapsed, and the [Innkeeper] shrieked at the head-sized hole in the delicate wood paneling. Sir Kerrig turned, and the remaining [Knights] backed up. The old [Knight] smiled coldly.

“This is war.”



——



And so the Order of the Petal rode to war. House Walchaís was locked down; the lands secured as all traffic in and out of its borders temporarily halted. The [Lady] of the land returned home with a fierce escort of her most loyal defenders without further incident.

It was one event among many taking place across Izril. Battle lines were being drawn, and the Rose Knights began to answer insult with injury. This event happened because of a message sent by Lady Bethal Walchaís to her trusted Grandmaster of the Rose, Sir Nathald.

And few people cared to know more than the implications and direct outcomes of Lady Bethal’s decision. But for those who looked, history in this moment had a footnote.

On Nendas, the 4th day of the week, Lady Bethal Walchaís was the recipient of the black rose, a symbol of cowardice across Izril. She was also the victim of an unrelated, unknown assassination attempt by unknown clients. Subsequently, the Lady Walchaís returned home and sent immediate word requesting an escort and for her Order of the Petal to rise to assail the enemies of her realm as she saw them. The message she sent arrived by Runner, not spell.

And the Wind Runner of Reizmelt delivered it.





6.27 M


Magnolia Reinhart. To many, she was as much of a legend as any Named Adventurer that Izril could boast of. She was a name that defined the continent, for better or worse.

Pallass. First Landing. Tyrion Veltras. Saliss of Lights. Deniusth the Violinist. The Bloodfeast Raiders. The Terland family. Zel Shivertail—or who would now step into his place? Klbkch the Slayer.

Heroes and villains. All depending on who you asked, of course. But in that list, there was always her name. Magnolia Reinhart. She was a villain to many. To very many, in fact. They still told stories of her rise to power and how she had claimed authority over her family.

She was a schemer, someone who used assassins and poison without scruple or mercy, a manipulator, and a woman. Those ideas often ran so close together, especially when people talked about women with power. Magnolia Reinhart could not be trusted.

“Compared to whom?”

Ressa shook her head as she pinned her hair back. It always bothered the [Head Maid] of Magnolia’s household whenever she heard those statements. You couldn’t trust Magnolia? She often kept her word. More than most of Izril’s nobles. Whom would you trust if you couldn’t trust her?

Lord Tyrion? Sure, if you wanted to beat your head against the unwavering brick wall that was his skull and stubborn pride. Another noble? Lord Erill? The man had as many ties to the underworld of crime as he did to honest enterprise. Lord Pellmia? That man had enough blood on his hands and enough broken vows to match anything Magnolia had ever done, but he was a [Lord] who had seen battle, not a [Lady] and that, for some reason, made a difference. Everyone had old failures and shames. One of the Walled Cities? Ask Liscor how Pallass honored its debts.

And as for women—no. It was just because Magnolia was the first among them that they called her untrustworthy. She was a woman in power. And that was frightening.

To some. But in Magnolia’s mansion, when Ressa opened the door to her private quarters and stepped out, she didn’t see fear or terror of poison on the faces of the staff as she swept through the carpeted floors. She saw a good deal of fear, true, but it was all directed at her.

Here she came. The true terror behind Magnolia, at least to her staff. And it wasn’t because Ressa was unflinchingly strict. She could be that—but it was rather how she tended to operate when there weren’t guests about. Ressa had ways.

Her first way was to get up before dawn. When the sky was still growing brighter, Ressa flitted from shadow to shadow, inspecting the hallways for dust and possible signs of infiltration. She was a [Maid], but she had been trained like an [Assassin]. She had inherited the best Skills of both classes.

Now Ressa leapt. The [Maid] dusting the hallway outside of Ressa’s room looked around. It was the constant occupation of the staff. A mansion as large as Magnolia’s estate obviously needed tending, but the staff hunted even the smallest of dust motes to extinction for a good reason: it helped them level.

The [Maid] class was one of the easiest classes in the world to level up if you kept busy. And it was infinitely combinable. So if you could gain a level from dusting vigorously for a month, why not have the highest-level staff in the world? The ultimate cleaners. And if need be—

Fighters. Mages. And, yes, assassins. The [Maid] in question was yawning, not having Ressa’s tolerance for early mornings. But she was dutifully dusting—right until she noticed a noticeable stain on the wall. This required more than a feather duster. So the [Maid] clicked her fingers and produced a small orb of water. She dipped a cloth into the water, cleaned the stain, inspected the wall, and created a bloom of light to inspect it further. She leaned forwards, and then whirled.

“[Sticky Webs]!”

The spell shot up across the hallway, towards the figure perched on the ceiling. Ressa jumped out of the way and ran down the wall. The [Maid Mage] gasped—Ressa’s hand was at her throat. She stared down and saw Ressa’s gloved hand. It was holding a feather from the duster.

“You dropped it.”

“Miss Ressa. I—”

“Phesofi. You did spot me. But you used water on an ink stain. Next time apply an alchemical tonic.”

“Urk.”

Phesofi looked behind her at the wallpaper, which might have the tiniest of smudges now. Ressa shook her head.

“Good work. Clean up.”

She dropped the feather. Phesofi caught it and then stared past Ressa at the webs now clogging the upper hallway. And at Ressa’s slight footprints that had dirtied the polished woodwork. The [Maid] sighed.

Ressa continued onwards, ignoring the [Maid Mage] as she levitated up to take care of the stains. They did level. And if you had a [Maid Mage] class, when you leveled, you leveled up as both a [Maid] and a [Mage]. Far faster than you’d level as a pure [Mage]. Even if your Skills were divided, that was power.

“Phesofi, good. Next—”

Ressa walked up the side of the wall, avoiding a large and hairy [Maid] passing down the next corridor. Bekia, the sole Gnoll [Maid], sniffed the air. Then she looked up.

“Good morning, Miss Ressa.”

“Morning, Bekia. Pass.”

The Gnoll nodded. Ressa walked on the ceiling, a fact that annoyed some of the staff assigned to clean up there to no end. But this was a test. She passed down the next corridor and looked down. A young [Maid] was wiping at the side of a regal painting. Ressa frowned, although this girl wasn’t one of the combat-capable staff she was testing on her patrol. Ressa dropped from the ceiling to the ground, twenty feet. The mansion had three floors, all with tall ceilings for good reason.

“Mavi.”

The [Maid] whirled around and screamed. Instantly, Ressa heard running feet. Both Bekia and Phesofi appeared around the corridor. They relaxed when they saw Ressa and the terrified [Maid].

“M-miss Ressa? I didn’t hear—”

The young woman stuttered. Ressa had appeared behind her like a ghost. The [Head Maid] stared at Mavi. She pointed at the cloth in the girl’s hand.

“You are polishing the portrait of Sir Gilet’s triumph over the King of Griffins with—is that chamois leather? Absolutely not. You’ll tarnish the silver.”

She reached out and touched the edges of the silver painting. Mavi the unfortunate [Maid] shook in place.

“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Ressa. I only thought that since it looks so good, I should use—”

She held up the delicate cleaning cloth. Ressa made a disgusted sound. Amateurs. Mavi had probably never served in a noble house with actual, precious silverwork.

“Use cotton. And soap and water! Bekia, take Mavi in hand and ensure she doesn’t make more mistakes.”

“At once, Ressa.”

The Gnoll [Maid] hurried over. Mavi stared up at Bekia with huge, round eyes. The Gnoll was over six feet tall, while Mavi, not yet seventeen, was a little over five feet. Bekia gave her a friendly smile. For a Gnoll, which meant lots of teeth. Ressa sighed. She stepped back and, to Mavi’s horror, vanished.

“Hrm. Not too bad of a tarnish. We can clean this easily, yes? Good thing you didn’t do the entire painting. I’m surprised no one caught this earlier. But you were hired a few days ago, yes? Tsk. What do they teach young [Maids] these days?”

The Gnoll inspected the silver, ignoring Mavi’s expression. The girl stuttered as she pointed at the space Ressa had been.

“Wh—but—she—”

“Hm? Oh, Miss Ressa is just very busy. She doesn’t mean much by her words. She is really quite kind, yes?”

Bekia turned and gave Mavi a reassuring smile. The girl stared at the Gnoll and gulped. She was hyperventilating, so Bekia gently let her sit on the carpeted floor.

“I’m going to die.”

“It’s alright.”

“B-but I heard she killed [Maids] who didn’t do their jobs right!”

The Gnoll looked shocked.

“Miss Ressa? No, no. She would never do that. Not unless you damaged the painting. Er, that is a joke, yes? She’s very nice. Just…secretive. You’ll get used to it.”

“But there’s Golems walking around the courtyard! And I went near the gardens, and the [Gardener] threatened to feed me to the plants!”

“He does that. Didn’t anyone tell you not to go near the garden?”

Mavi sniffed.

“I only wanted to pick a flower.”

“Better you don’t. The [Gardener] regards his flowers like people. Pick a flower and he’ll pick you.”

The girl shuddered. Bekia realized that she wasn’t actually being reassuring and laid a big paw on Mavi’s shoulder. The girl stared at it, wide-eyed. Bekia smiled again.

“You haven’t met a Gnoll before, yes?”

“No…”

“We will be friends, then! And you will do fine. Most new staff have a terrible first week. But the ones who stay, they do well. And you will stay, I think. You would not be hired if you were not promising.”

“Really?”

“Oh yes. Now, let’s clean this silver, and you will have breakfast with me. And I will explain to you about cloths, how to clean footsteps off the ceiling, and why the gardens are so very dangerous, yes?”

Mavi wavered. She looked ready to run. But faced with Bekia’s smile, the girl realized that a Gnoll’s toothy grin was the least scary thing in the mansion. So she sniffed again, stood up, and nodded.

That was all Ressa had waited to see. The [Head Maid] walked away across the ceiling, invisible and soundless. She didn’t leave that many footprints either. Even so, Bekia turned her head to wink.

Bekia. A good [Maid]. One of the best, really. A proper [Maid] as opposed to the combat staff. A devil at polishing and hunting down vermin. And she can cook as well as any [Chef] with [Advanced Cooking]. Obviously she can still fight, but she can do the rest as well. If only she could handle the shedding, she’d be perfect.

Ressa nodded to herself. Bekia was a credit to the mansion. Phesofi, on the other hand, was a Wistram graduate who still acted more [Mage] than [Maid]. She’d been with them…two years. She had potential, but she had to act her role. Was she [Mage] or [Maid] with magic? If she couldn’t be the latter, she couldn’t be part of the staff.

And you wanted to be part of Magnolia’s personal staff. The benefits were considerable. True, the demands could be just as unreasonable, but Magnolia Reinhart’s people did not want for money or security, for their jobs or their families. But you had to be good.

Very good. Ressa proceeded down the next corridor. This time, the hallway was filled with glass windows; the front of the mansion. She saw a colorful shape glide across the glass; one of the magnificent, enchanted animals that swam across Magnolia’s mansion as if the walls and windows were water.

Ressa kept away from the windows and landed on the floor again. The hallway had several pedestals bearing treasures on display. Ressa crept from pedestal to pedestal, until she was nearly upon the [Maid] staring out the window. Ressa flicked out a throwing dagger with a twist of her wrist as she slid behind the [Maid].

“Sacra.”

“Ressa.”

The woman lowered her mace. Ressa lowered the dagger.

“Pass.”

Sacra nodded. She put the enchanted mace into her bag of holding.

“Weekly security check?”

“I’m conducting it early.”

“Nervous?”

Ressa frowned.

“Perhaps. Something’s in the air. Keep your mace ready. Magnolia may call on you.”

Sacra nodded. She returned to inspecting the window as Ressa leapt back up to the ceiling. A [Manservant] hurrying down the corridor with a load of cleaned curtains saw the shape flitting upwards. He stared up as Ressa stared down at him from the ceiling. His scream was no less high-pitched than Mavi’s.

“Quiet. The household is asleep.”

Ressa glared at the man. He nodded as he grabbed at the curtains. Sacra suppressed a snort. And Ressa was gone again.

Her reign of terror was indeed a combination of her habit of sneaking up on people and her strictness. And the fact that Ressa was known for her role in disposing of nuisances around Magnolia Reinhart herself. But yes, the main reason the staff feared her were instances like that.

Reynold was enjoying a cup of tea in the kitchen. He was eating a sandwich. Ressa whispered in his ears as she stood upside-down right behind him.

“Failure.”

The [Combat Butler] jumped, spilled tea on himself, and reached for his sword all at once. Ressa waited until he’d recovered from his minor heart attack.

“Watch your back, Reynold. And clean up the crumbs.”

She indicated the crumbs on the table. Reynold nodded miserably as he adjusted his outfit, which would now need cleaning and pressing. Ressa walked onwards. Now she slipped out of the mansion and did a check around the estate.

Magnolia Reinhart’s estate was large. It wasn’t part of Invrisil, but rather a decent distance away from the city, separate, but not isolated. The place was more like a fortress than a retreat; aside from the ensorcelled walls and gates, layers of security lay between any visitor and Magnolia Reinhart herself. And in the months since the last attack, the defenses had grown only more elaborate.

The most obvious of defenses marched past Ressa as she quietly walked on the ground, still walking in the shadows of the night. Steel Golems passed the [Maid] by, their heads on a swivel. These gargantuan warriors were more of a show, though. They could help against an army, but despite being giant metal war machines, Ressa knew they were as useless as stationary rocks against anyone in her line of work. She slipped past them, and this time skirted a shadow in the air.

A giant floating raincloud passed Ressa by. It was enchanted to rain on the parts of the estate that needed water. And while it wasn’t raining yet, Ressa didn’t trust it not to rain. She also didn’t like to get below something that could throw around [Chain Lightning] spells. She did a circle of the gardens, inspecting the flower beds, some of the statues, enchanted and mundane, even the walls for signs of tampering or failures in the wards.

The only place Ressa didn’t go was the garden. It had its own protector and was, in a way, the most dangerous part of Magnolia’s mansion. And Ressa did not get along with Nalthaliarstrelous, the [Gardener]. The man was also a [Druid], and Bekia was quite correct in that he took his job seriously. His overgrown hedge maze could probably kill a small army if they wandered in.

Inspection done, Ressa walked into the mansion and visited the kitchens. She didn’t scare the [Chef] on duty, a male Dullahan. The last thing she needed was for him to burn any food by accident. Ressa collected her breakfast and glanced around.

“Have Reynold bring today’s meal to the carriage. We’ll be departing at first light.”

“Yes, Miss Ressa.”

The Dullahan, his armor a decorative mix of silver and wood—painted with floral designs by a master [Artist], very attractive to other Dullahans—watched gloomily as Ressa gulped down her breakfast. Simple porridge and fruit for the [Head Maid]. She was done in less than a minute. It was good food, which was all the more heartbreaking to the [Chef], but he had learned that Ressa ate fast.

This was how Ressa’s day started. By the time the sun was rising and Magnolia Reinhart was waking up, her right hand and best friend had checked the mansion from head to toe, terrorized the staff, eaten her own breakfast, and collected the day’s itinerary. As Magnolia Reinhart’s head rose from her luxurious bed, Ressa was standing next to it, a prim and proper shadow for her mistress, the most powerful [Lady] of Izril. Or so Ressa believed.

Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower Blooming in the North, head of the Reinhart family, and one of the most famed and feared Human women in the world opened her eyes. She stared at the ceiling, raised her head from the pillow—and let it fall. Then she rolled over.

“Another hour, Ressa.”

The [Maid] stared at Magnolia’s slumbering form. Magnolia rolled over, curling up in her silken sheets. Ressa cleared her throat.

“You have a busy day, Magnolia. You’ll need to be on the road in ten minutes. Dressing alone will take—”

“I’m sleepy, Ressa.”

“I’m aware of that. Should I cancel your schedule, then?”

Ressa’ crooked eyebrow suggested that she would hit Magnolia with her list if the woman did. Magnolia groaned.

“I’d like that. Where am I going?”

“Village inspection. We’re headed to Talizmet and then Embrie. Unless you have other plans?”

Magnolia smiled into her pillow.

“No, that sounds quite nice, actually. Fresh air and all that. Is the carriage ready?”

“Reynold should have it prepared and ready to go. Are you getting up?”

“In three minutes.”

Ressa stared out of Magnolia’s window. A huge eye stared back at her. An enchanted whale swam down the outside of Magnolia’s mansion. Through its transparent body, Ressa could see the sun rising.

“I think you need to get up now. Magnolia. Magnolia Reinhart. It is time to get up.”

“Ressa. You are as terrible as those shrieking sounds those children showed me on their devices. No, worse. Just give me two more minutes…”

Magnolia’s voice faded away. Ressa leaned over her. She whispered to Magnolia’s comatose form.

“If you don’t get up, I will make you get up.”

“How?”

“I will push you out of your bed.”

Magnolia considered this. Wearily and very grudgingly, she rolled over. Then she sat up.

“I detest you at times, Ressa, for all of our long-enduring friendship.”

“I’m prepared to be hated. That’s part of my job.”

Magnolia nodded glumly.

“I fear that hatred doesn’t encapsulate all of the delightful emotions I’m feeling right now. May I at least see my apparel, tyrant?”

Ressa sighed. The wardrobe slid open, and rows of dresses arranged themselves in the air as she clicked her fingers. Magnolia blinked blearily, not one whit impressed by the magical dresser.

“I think the mauve dress. The long arms and lattice, yes. Mm. Nicely trimmed. I’m feeling properly mauve today.”

“As you wish. It’s a dull color, but I don’t choose your dresses for you.”

Magnolia sighed, exasperated as she stood and quickly changed clothes with Ressa’s help.

“Ressa, you wear a black and white maid’s uniform. And your fashion of choice is dark grey, green, or blue. And that’s when you’re not on the job.”

“And you like pink.”

“Mauve.”

“Either way. You’re dressed. Do you want anything else?”

“Dignity? But I suppose I’ll find that later.”

Magnolia sighed. She slapped her cheeks lightly and turned around. The bleary look in her eyes faded, as did the casual, chatty tone in her voice. She sighed, and then a [Lady] gave Ressa a smile that you could use to hammer a nail into the wall. You could bounce bricks off Magnolia Reinhart’s façade. And she’d just woken up.

“Ah, well, time to be about the business of the day. Let’s be on with it, shall we?”

She walked towards the door as Ressa held it open. And the complaining, sleepy Magnolia was a thing of the past. The real thing, or rather, the person everyone else saw, delicately walked out the door, calling a cheerful greeting to the first servant she saw in the halls. Only Ressa saw the complaining Magnolia, the one who wanted to sleep in. She saw Magnolia’s weakness, and that was a cherished moment of weakness. For Magnolia Reinhart let few people see that she had anything close to vulnerability. She had too many enemies and too few friends.

“Are we taking the main carriage or the backup today?”

Magnolia chatted softly to Ressa as they walked through the halls of Magnolia’s mansion. Now the place was beginning to wake up with the house’s [Lady], and servants were filling the halls.

Not all were there just to clean or cook; many had other roles. Tending to guests if there were any, shopping, preparing for little trips abroad to fulfill Magnolia Reinhart’s tasks, battling the encroaching garden…Magnolia had a large staff, and all of them paused to greet the lady of the house. Magnolia frowned absently.

“The main carriage’s enchantment spell is still malfunctioning?”

“Apparently. I’ve had the [Enchanter], Hedault, look at it twice, but he claims the encounter with the Goblin Lord has damaged the wards beyond his ability to repair. He insists we call upon a [Mage] of Wistram for further repairs.”

The two women walked down the mansion’s corridors. Magnolia smiled and greeted servants who curtseyed to her while Ressa glared over her shoulder.

“Damn. But that isn’t his specialty, is it? Hello, Mavi. Don’t mind Ressa. She’s in a mood. Good morning, to you all.”

She passed by Mavi, who was with Bekia as the Gnoll showed her how to clean a vase to Ressa’s standards. Magnolia smiled at the younger, Human girl with freckles as Mavi jumped and stammered a greeting. Mavi paled as Ressa gave her a look. Magnolia sighed.

“Don’t bully the younger staff, Ressa. You’re supposed to be nurturing.”

Magnolia flicked a hand impatiently at Ressa. The [Maid] leaned back, and the fingers missed her by a second. Magnolia flicked her wrist again and missed; Ressa dodged the waving fingers with ease.

“I’m kind to the staff in my own way. However, I am their boss.”

“And I’m their employer. Surely that gives me the authority to give orders?”

Ressa snorted softly. Magnolia sighed.

“Of course not. How silly of me. Good morning, Reynold!”

The two walked out of the double doors of the mansion. A [Butler] stood by an astonishingly pink carriage. He swept Magnolia and Ressa a quick bow.

“Milady Reinhart. Miss Ressa. Where to first?”

He held the carriage door open as Magnolia settled herself inside. The sumptuous carriage was rich enough to make any transport pleasant, and the padded, cushy interior was only a fraction of the carriage’s delights.

As Reynold climbed into the driver’s seat, two ghostly horses appeared, and the carriage smoothly began rolling forwards. The wheels actually levitated a few inches off the ground, and the entire vehicle could reach insane speeds without the occupants feeling a thing. Inside the carriage, Magnolia leaned back as Ressa fussed with a silver-domed, covered tray.

“Talizmet first. What’s first on our list, Ressa? And is this breakfast I smell?”

The [Maid] lifted the cover with a nod. A pleasant aroma filled the carriage.

“Spiced biscuits. Nutmeg. Assorted fruits. Milk. Some butter. A boiled egg.”

“Delightful, delightful.”

Magnolia smiled in genuine delight as Reynold took the carriage out of the mansion and out onto the road at gathering speed. Both women ignored the landscape blurring outside. Magnolia peered around the hot plate of food with dismay.

“However…I heard you say milk, but where’s the tea, Ressa?”

“I have a small pot here. But there is no sugar to add to it.”

Ressa shook a tiny kettle. Magnolia froze as she reached for her cup.

“Well, that’s clearly a mistake. Check the side cupboard. I always keep a spare bag there.”

The [Maid] gave Magnolia a cold smile.

“You’re mistaking me. What I meant to say was, there is no sugar anywhere in this carriage, Magnolia. Even in your hiding places. You’ve been having too much. You’re gaining weight.”

She poked at Magnolia’s midriff. The [Lady] sat up indignantly.

“I resent that! I have a full figure compared to you, Ressa. But I’m hardly overweight.”

“Because I watch your diet. Skills or not, you eat too much sugar. Your teeth should have melted years ago.”

“Hence the ban on sugar for breakfasts?”

“You can have some later. For now, you may have tea with milk. Or none at all.”

Magnolia’s eyes slowly narrowed as she stared at Ressa. She took a deep breath.

“Ressa, I love you like a sister sometimes. And bearing in mind that I am a Reinhart, you should understand exactly how much of a threat that is. Don’t take away my sugar. Or I’ll have to get nasty.”

Her glare could have pinned a gnat to the wall. Ressa was unmoved.

“So that’s no tea, then?”

Magnolia glowered. Then she raised her cup.

“Fill it. And if I don’t have a sugar cube by midday, there will be blood.”

“Duly noted. Eat up. Your food’s growing cold.”



——



The pink carriage that bore Magnolia Reinhart was obviously as famous as the woman itself. Death to [Bandits], the fastest and most obnoxious vehicle on the road, it could travel over a hundred miles an hour. It could even fly. So Magnolia and Ressa arrived at the village they’d chosen almost minutes after Magnolia had finished her breakfast.

Talizmet wasn’t far; it was, in fact, on Magnolia’s lands. That was to say, the area around Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. Magnolia Reinhart owned Invrisil, the surrounding demesne, and a few other properties as her main holdings. Of course, the Reinhart family possessed far more land, but if any could be said to be Magnolia’s explicitly, it was this area.

“We’re just rolling through this village, Reynold. Keep us moving, but at a walking pace. Ressa, where did the money go?”

“Let’s see. You gave the [Headman] a sizeable fund after the winter snowmelt and spring rains flooded the village four weeks back. The record states that the village suffered extensive flood damage.”

“So I note.”

Magnolia stared gloomily out the window. The pink carriage had slowed as it entered the village, but the wheels still failed to touch the ground. Which was a good thing; the street was more mud than road, and though some parts were dry, it was hardly an ideal walking surface.

In the same vein, Talizmet was not a village on the up and up. Magnolia could see water damage around three feet in height on the exposed foundations of some of the wooden houses. In other places, the water had clearly damaged the wood. Talizmet was based next to a river—too close, really—and the spring rains and snowmelt had flooded the area.

“I don’t see any effort to fix the houses, do you, Ressa?”

The [Maid] was looking out her window.

“None. Neither is the road rebuilt, although the [Headman] had plenty of time to have it dredged or even paved if need be. I believe Sacra left him with the details of several reputable [Builders] in Invrisil.”

“She would have. Where has the money all got to? Healing potions? Or have they decided to rebuild a farm? Shore up the river, perhaps?”

Magnolia’s left hand drummed in her lap. Her face was still as she slowly surveyed the damaged village. Ressa glanced at her notes, printed on costly, clean paper in handwriting that would be a match for any [Scribe]’s. Another task of the staff.

“No. There weren’t many injuries, and the outlying farms didn’t suffer unduly.”

“The river, then. Take us forwards, Reynold. Unless—”

And then they saw it. As the carriage turned around a block of houses, Ressa took in a sharp breath. Magnolia hissed softly. There, standing out like a sore thumb in the middle of the village, was a new building, untouched by water damage. A new, sturdy foundation had been laid, and the building was even raised to avoid the same issues of flooding. But it was one building. And it was—

“An inn. A damned inn?”

Magnolia raised her voice in disgust. Sure enough, a large inn had been constructed, and the lights in the windows told Ressa that the inn was getting business, even in the morning. More than one villager looked to have been getting their breakfast there. And from the way a woman missed a step as she walked out of the building, they’d gotten more than just food.

“At least we know now where all the coin went.”

Ressa’s dry voice hid the anger she was feeling. Magnolia didn’t answer. The [Lady]’s hand had stopped drumming and clenched into a fist in her lap.

“Yes. We have. And I’ve seen quite enough. Reynold.”

The [Butler] looked back through the sliding door towards his employer. His face was equally affronted, although it quickly smoothed over into careful neutrality.

“Yes, Lady Reinhart?”

“Find the [Headman]. Or if he’s not available, one of the sober villagers. I believe you know what to do.”

Magnolia sat back in her carriage, fuming. Ressa silently offered her more unsweetened tea. Magnolia sipped it, stared at Ressa, and poured the tea out the window. Meanwhile, Reynold leapt lightly to the muddy street and looked around, straightening his lapels.

The pink carriage could hardly have been missed as it drove into Talizmet. The color, the enchanted horses and wheels—all of it pointed to one individual. So a number of Talizmet’s villagers were already congregating, and someone had roused the inn’s patrons. They came pouring out of the inn to stare.

“Lady Reinhart? Here? Herself?”

It was inconceivable. But then—this was on her land. And she’d just pulled in. So was she here to see the [Headman]? On some other business? Had she sent word, and had they failed to notice it? The villagers grew increasingly anxious as Reynold stood by the coach, searching the faces.

Like an unsettled anthill, the villagers gathered, and then found their victim. A man stumbled forwards, middle-aged, his cheeks slightly ruddy and flushed with more than just nerves. He straightened his clothes as he marched towards Reynold in the mud.

“Er, sir! Sir Butler, may I help you?”

The [Headman] of Talizmet halted as Reynold delicately blocked his way. The [Headman] craned his neck, but the windows of the carriage were now covered. He stared at Reynold. The [Butler] gave him a polite, small smile.

“I believe you can. I am Reynold, in service to Lady Reinhart. May I ask if you are the [Headman] of Talizmet, sir?”

The middle-aged man gulped and stood straighter.

“I am. Er, well met, Mister Reynold. My name’s Boultend Drawe. [Headman] of Talizmet. Although the village has seen better times, eh, sir?”

“Indeed, Headman Boultend.”

“Ah—but we’ve been ever so grateful for Lady Reinhart’s aid! The gold’s gone to good use, as you can see.”

Boultend grinned uncertainly. Reynold was looking around as he spoke to Boultend, and his expression, while politely friendly, wasn’t exactly warm. The [Headman] gestured at the inn.

“It’s, uh, a real help. Fresh food, good, strong drinks, and the [Innkeeper]’s a right sort. We got him two towns over. Why, with a bit more gold, we’d be able to turn the rest of the village into a place anyone would want to visit. Is—is that why Lady Reinhart’s here?”

His worry suddenly turned to hope. Boultend stared at the carriage with its magical horses and gilt exterior. He edged closer to Reynold, raising his voice while trying to be conspiratorial.

“We could use a bit more of her funds, to tell you the truth, sir. I’d hardly ask, but the roads are still a mess, and the houses could use more raising. And if we could see to the river as well? I’m sure Lady Reinhart’s generosity would make the young folks ever so gratef—”

The [Headman] stopped then, because the look Reynold gave him wasn’t [Butler]-like at all. It was rather like a man deciding whether to crush a snail in his path. The [Headman] stopped, gulping.

For a second, the look was there, then it was gone. Reynold smiled, and it was a polite smile, with no actual engagement on the part of the person behind it. A servant’s smile. He too raised his voice so the people of Talizmet, edging closer, could hear.

“Relief funds? I’m afraid you misunderstand, headman Boultend. Of course, the issue of Talizmet’s flooding distresses Lady Reinhart greatly. But, having seen the splendid new inn Talizmet had constructed in lieu of repairing the roads, houses, or shoring up the river against further flooding, Lady Reinhart has decided that the village clearly doesn’t need anything other than the inn. This visit was simply to confirm that fact.”

Color drained out of Boultend’s face. The villagers looked shocked. The [Headman] scrambled to block Reynold’s path as the [Butler] marched back to the carriage.

“Hold on! But sir—our village is in dire need! Surely Lady Reinhart can see that herself!”

“She can and did see the reports, sir. But as I noted, she has also seen how her generous donation to Talizmet has been spent.”

Reynold knocked aside Boultend’s hands and straightened one of his cuffs. Boultend spluttered.

“But we built—”

“An inn. Talizmet has little foot traffic. It does not need an inn, sir. Nor was this the first thing the village should have attended to. Perhaps you thought you could claim the funds were ill-spent, or the costs exceeded your funds. However, Lady Reinhart is known to take a personal interest in how her money is spent. She has seen quite clearly how Talizmet’s [Headman] prioritizes his village.”

Reynold calmly delivered the words like a splash of cold water. Boultend, now completely sober, watched in horror as Reynold climbed into the coach. He reached out, as if to pull the man back. Perhaps he might have even had the thought to throw himself in the way of the carriage, but Reynold’s hand stopped him. As the [Butler] got into his seat, his other hand slid towards the sword at his waist. Boultend backed away.

“Sir! Mister Reynold, let me speak to Lady Reinhart! I—we may have erred, but we thought her generosity would surely extend to more than a few repairs!”

Reynold checked his seat. He flapped the reins gently, and the carriage began to move forwards slowly.

“Perhaps it would have. But generosity is wasted if not put to good use. I hate to take up more of your valuable time, sir. I will not trouble you, and indeed, Lady Reinhart is quite busy. Please clear the street.”

The carriage turned. Boultend ran with it as a buzz of voices rose in the air behind him. He could see everyone in his small village watching, so he abandoned the voice in his head and grabbed for the side of the carriage. Instantly, a hand like steel gripped his, crushing his fingers, and pulled them away from the seat. Boultend stared up into Reynold’s eyes. Wincing, gasping, he forced one last plea out.

“Sir Butler. What are we supposed to do? If the river floods again—”

Reynold bent over. He spoke in a carrying voice as he forced Boultend back from the carriage.

“I’m told a stiff drink wards away all ills, sir. Perhaps it works as well on water?”

Then he let go. Boultend staggered back, clutching his injured hand. Reynold sat back upright, flicked the reins, and the carriage accelerated. It left no tracks in the mud, and the villagers watched as it sped out of the village, in an instant moving faster than a horse could run. And then the carriage was gone, and it was as if it had never been there.

Silently, Talizmet’s villagers stared at their [Headman]. He looked around, suddenly hunted, and they considered what had just been said. What had transpired. They stared at the inn, which, in hindsight, didn’t look like such a good idea now, did it? And they looked at Boultend and thought.

But of course, it was far too late for reasonable thought. Magnolia Reinhart had come and gone. And she had been here, in their little village! One of the richest women in the world, and she had been here. They could have impressed her. She could have changed their lives. She already had, of course, but the people of Talizmet were only now learning the lesson they should have thought of at the start.

You only got one chance.



——



The carriage ride away from Talizmet was silent for five minutes as Reynold drove away from the muddy, small village. He kept to the road, keeping his speed shy of anything insane. He was on the lookout for wagons, travellers—anything that might be unfortunate to hit. Only when he was on a relative straightaway did he increase the speed to the point where he left birds in the dust.

Inside the carriage, both Ressa and Magnolia were silent. The [Maid] silently made a few notes on the paper concerning Talizmet. She knew better to interrupt Magnolia. When the [Lady] did speak, it was in a tight, but controlled voice.

“Unbelievable. I’d heard their [Headman] liked his drinks, but to this extent? If he’s not thrown out of the village in a week, make sure to send Sacra by again in disguise to help relocate them. The families who actually have a head on their shoulders don’t deserve to pay for the rest of the village’s idiocy.”

“Of course.”

Ressa had already made the arrangements. But she appreciated that Magnolia wasn’t too incensed to let anger cloud her judgment. And the [Lady] was angry. Her eyes were flashing. But she only took another sip of tea.

“Talizmet was a failure. The village may well disintegrate. If it does not, it has far to go. They never should have built so close to the river. Or if they had, they should have taken precautions.”

“The flooding may not have happened in years prior. Or if it did, it was probably more manageable. Whoever founded the village might never have thought of it, and once it was a community, who would move? Would you uproot them? Or would it have been better to tell the [Headman] exactly what to build and oversee the process?”

Ressa calmly filed the paper away. She was playing out an old conversation with Magnolia, to give her friend a chance to vent. Magnolia pursed her lips.

“Of course not! If I ordered them about like Tyrion, what would they learn? Am I an expert on fishing village architecture? Should I hire an [Architect] for them? No. I am content to let them sort out their own issues. Even give them money if need be. But if that money is misused—”

“That’s why we do these checks. You’ve found out Talizmet’s leadership is inept. What’s to be angry about?”

“The fact that he is inept. And that the people will suffer his idiocy. And theirs.”

Magnolia slumped back in her seat. Ressa nodded. Neither mentioned the fact that Magnolia could have paid to rebuild the entire village in stone a hundred yards to the east in a heartbeat. Because that wasn’t the point. And if you didn’t understand that, you didn’t understand Magnolia.

She could be cruel. But often, she wasn’t so much cruel as practical. She did not waste money. And to some, practicality, no—a refusal to spend every single coin possible to help someone else—was often called cruelty. And what those people failed to recall was that Magnolia Reinhart owed them nothing. A [Lady] or [Lord] could manage their estates and care for their people well, protect them at every turn, and make their lands prosper. It did not mean they had to. And still, Magnolia Reinhart spent more on her own lands than any two nobles combined.

“Embrie, Reynold.”

Ressa knocked on the front of the carriage. Reynold acknowledged, and the [Maid] sat back. Magnolia sighed. She sipped more tea, grimaced, and looked at Ressa.

“Alright. One village down. Let’s get to the rest of my business. I suppose. Top concerns of the day?”

Ressa nodded. She had a bundle of papers with her, and aside from the reports on both villages, she had a list of items for consideration. The first she flipped through was world events. Then spy reports. Income and expenses—Ressa had, of course, read it already, but she was refreshing her memory.

“Let’s see. Rhir is quiet, but the Blighted King’s latest failed offensive and the attack on the palace mean both sides are probably recovering. The Titan’s game hasn’t upset Baleros…I see two minor conflicts, but nothing noticeable. Terandria is speculating on what the Kallinad family will receive from the Titan, so most of the politics are focused around that. You are aware of the marriage proposed between the Kallinad family and—”

“Yes, yes. Not interesting. No wars?”

Ressa raised an eyebrow.

“Not in Terandria. Chandrar is stirring. The Emperor of Sands has declared war on two more nations. Meanwhile, Jecrass and Belchan have both affirmed the King of Destruction’s claim. As have a number of other nations, including Nerrhavia’s Fall. On the other hand—Tiqr is already on the defensive.”

“Already?”

Magnolia frowned, surprised. Ressa nodded.

“It seems the Illivere League and Savere both launched immediate assaults into the land, and Nerrhavia is already moving. Along with the smaller nations, the war golems and Savere’s [Raiders] have forced Tiqr’s forces to retreat.”

“Tiqr has beasts, don’t they? They can’t fight golems. Odd. I thought Illivere would be slowest to move since their leader is usually so neutral and hospitable. I wonder if it’s a feint on his part. Never mind. We’ll see what Flos does, if anything. If he breaks his oath, all the better. Izril news?”

Ressa turned a page and grimaced. Magnolia raised her brows.

“Well?”

“Do you want to hear it?”

“Ah. Should I guess? It involves me. And people are not happy about me.”

It was an accurate summation. Ressa shook her head.

“There are a number of prominent voices calling you a coward for your actions against Tyrion. Some individuals are even calling for you to be censured at the next gathering of nobility.”

Magnolia sat back.

“I take it there’s a coalition forming? And a censure is new. They’ve lost their fear of me. I have no doubt there will be a sizeable party in opposition.”

“You could put a stop to it, you know.”

“How? By poisoning a few bodies? For talking?”

The [Lady] frowned. Ressa shut her mouth and hesitated before replying.

“Your father and mother would have taken a different approach.”

Magnolia turned her head to regard her old friend. Ressa hesitated.

“They would have.”

“I am not my mother. Nor my father, for which we should all be grateful. It is not a good method, Ressa. The Reinhart family’s historical doctrine is to rule by intimidation and fear. Or rather, the hint of such things. We are, traditionally, great friends until we are enemies. And then we are the most deadly of enemies.”

“I know.”

Ressa had more cause to know than most. She knew the Reinhart history. Magnolia went on, pointedly ignoring Ressa.

“And what makes the Reinhart family so feared is that the line between friendship and mortal enemies is invisible, incalculable, and unpredictably quick to move to those in the middle. So far better to be a good friend than an enemy.”

Sighing, the [Maid] sat back.

“It worked.”

Magnolia scowled as she nodded.

“It did! But somewhere in the past two centuries, my family decided it was better to be a terror than an unpredictable, yet generous friend. Hence the state of affairs when I took over. Were it not for dear Regis, I might have been born a pauper. Or not at all.”

“None of that means you can’t instill some nervousness in the hearts of your opponents, Magnolia.”

“And again, I ask, over what? Ressa, if they want to insult me, they may. But I am trying to cultivate an image other than that of a decidedly attractive tyrant. The fact that anyone is willing to voice their dissent is a step in the right direction, or so I feel. Or do you think it’s better if they took me holding my peers’ beloved ones hostage in silence?”

Ressa didn’t respond to that. Magnolia sighed.

“I have made the reason for the actions I took perfectly clear. My peers may not agree with it, but many do recognize that we averted a war with the Drakes at the last moment. If they wish to censure me, they are welcome to do so. But I will not provoke them for insults that are rightly deserved. Or would you have me start poisoning everyone?”

The [Maid] glowered.

“Playing peacemaker only works so long as there is still a threat.”

“And who should I threaten? Name me a list of actual enemies that seek my head, Ressa.”

“The Circle of Thorns?”

“And how many of them are there? Who are they? Are they even peers of the realm? Until I know that, I won’t fall into the Reinhart way of shoving a vaseful of roses down the throat of anyone who so much as sneezes at me the wrong—”

“Lady Reinhart? Miss Ressa? We’ve arrived.”

A delicate cough cut off the argument between the two women. Ressa slowly sat back. Magnolia smoothed her skirts. Both of them glanced towards the front of the carriage and the open sliding door they’d forgotten was open. Magnolia called out in a cheerful voice.

“Thank you, Reynold! Take us around the village.”

She opened a curtain as Ressa did the same. This time Magnolia took one look at the village of Embrie and smiled.

“My. Would you look at that!”

What greeted the three visitors to Embrie was an odd display on the street. Sheltered out of the sun in makeshift awnings were a bunch of seated women, tending to long, wooden contraptions. Looms. And the outdoor looms were perfectly positioned to take advantage of the cool spring weather. Not only that; Magnolia saw women sitting together, sewing fabric, some delicately dying the fresh fabric, and others adding embroidery to finished dresses or bolts of cloth.

“It’s a small fair outside. Ressa, is all this new?”

The [Maid] regarded the outdoor looms and then checked her notes.

“Embrie did have a few strong [Weavers] and other tailoring experts, but not this many. And not nearly this many looms. They must have taken the gold and had some more made. I can’t account for the dyes, though.”

“Does any town nearby import the dyes? Or do villages around here make it?”

“Possibly—yes. Yes. There’s a village fifteen miles north of here that creates a yellow pigmented dye, and another that manufactures green and blue.”

“And so I see on display here. With a few other colors.”

Magnolia nodded at the dyed cloths, which did indeed feature all three colors as the primary colors in their patterns. They were all different, though, and very pleasing, if not as complex as a richer fabric in pattern. But a simple bolt of blue cloth was still very desirable. And…Magnolia smiled.

“Look. They even have children learning it.”

She indicated a few girls who were watching as an older woman showed them how the loom worked. That decided Magnolia. She pulled at the carriage door.

“I’m going to get out. Reynold, drive us closer.”

“Wait.”

Ressa was out her side of the door and scanning the street in a flash. She had already done a check, but now she scrutinized the entire area with her Skills and one of the artifacts she carried. The [True Seeing] spell revealed nothing, but Ressa still made Magnolia wait for a few seconds to check everything from the needles to the children. And meanwhile, the carriage had been spotted.

The women of Embrie watched as Magnolia Reinhart left her carriage, and the susurration that arose was of a different kind than Talizmet’s nervousness. A lot of it had to do with the way Magnolia swept out of her carriage at once this time, with a beaming smile and a cheerful ‘hello!’. It caught people off-guard, especially people who thought they knew Magnolia Reinhart, one of the famous Reinhart family. It was like when Magnolia would open the door to greet City Runners. When she wanted to be, she was very friendly.

“Lady Reinhart?”

One of the older women murmured in disbelief. Magnolia smiled. She had never been here. And Embrie had never had reason to suspect Magnolia would take an interest in their village, aside from the fact that it lay on her lands. She swept forwards, Ressa at her side and Reynold carefully settling the carriage.

“I’m terribly sorry to intrude. But I was just passing through, and I couldn’t help but notice you all! How do you do? I am Magnolia Reinhart, yes. And you are?”

“Ah—my name is Lettice, milady.”

The older woman, caught quite off-guard, tried to curtsy. Magnolia tutted.

“No need for that. I’m just popping in. I wouldn’t want to disturb you at your work. Tell me, is this a village of artisans? I’ve not seen so much fabric since I was at Invrisil’s bazaars! And such colors! Hello to you all! And hello there.”

She bent, smiling, to one of the girls, who was staring open-mouthed at Magnolia’s own magnificent dress. The women abandoned their tasks and hesitantly approached, put off-guard by Magnolia’s greeting and the lack of an escort. They might have seen nobility riding past, but Magnolia had come alone. But there was a second reason why they soon abandoned their wariness and became welcoming.

If some were afraid of her with or without good cause, Magnolia had her admirers. And they were her people.

Women. Both young and old, they stood around Magnolia, talking to her, listening, and gaining a measure of the Lady Reinhart that Izril knew. Because, of course, Magnolia was a name they knew. And she was a female name. One of the few among so many males. And the woman herself did not disappoint. Soon, Magnolia was laughing and asking innocent questions she already knew the answer to. And she was charming. Without using a Skill.

“My. And you wove that yourself?”

She looked admiringly at a girl who was showing her a little scarf made out of yellow thread. The girl nodded proudly, and Magnolia clapped her hands.

“How wonderful. I don’t have the patience for knitting, weaving, or anything to do with thread. Sometimes I wish I had, but I have a terrible time with my own hair as it is. Ressa, do look at this scarf! Would you try it on for us?”

The girl nodded ecstatically. Magnolia laughed delightedly, and it was a genuine laugh.

“A little [Princess]! And I daresay your fabrics will sell well at any market you choose to go to. Tell me, please, Miss Lettice. Is this a new venture?”

The old woman smiled.

“A new one, Miss Reinhart. That’s right. Oh, we’ve made cloth for decades, but dyeing them and even tailoring dresses is new. You see, we’ve come into some money after a richer harvest, and we noticed that wool was cheaper than it had been in years. Well, we already needed new clothes after some bad moth infestations—so we thought, why not take it further?”

She waved excitedly at the dyed fabrics.

“And we knew that Vitti made good dyes and approached them to get it cheaper than if we bought it on the markets. For some of our product, we got it for a song. And if we turn this into a business, we could sell more than just clothes and our field’s harvests!”

Magnolia beamed.

“That is wonderful. And will you sell it to Invrisil?”

Lettice’s face grew cautious.

“Well—I don’t know that we’d go that far. Perhaps if our fabrics made it to the nearest town and did well, but I imagine a [Merchant] would take it the rest of the way if he thought it was worth doing, begging your ladyship’s pardon. We take pride in our work, but this isn’t nearly as good as some cloth. Nowhere near good enough for a dress like yours.”

She indicated Magnolia’s dress. The [Lady] nodded.

“I won’t deny that, Miss Lettice. But I imagine that in a few years’ time it might well be. After all, you must all be leveling quicker in your classes. And with a diverse set of tailoring Skills, you could produce something fine. Not that I think you should try going to Invrisil just yet. But might I ask what you intended to charge for each bolt of cloth? Because, you see, if it were me, I wouldn’t ask for, oh, what do you think a good price would be, Ressa?”

Innocently, Magnolia cast towards Ressa. Amused, but hiding it, the [Maid] replied with the going rate for fabrics in Invrisil. Embrie’s women brightened, but Magnolia pounced on the emotion before it could bloom too far.

“True, Ressa, but that is in Invrisil, which sells to so many. For a town? I imagine so many products would lower the price by at least four silver coins. If you sold it to one town, of course. Now, it would be difficult and even dangerous to send a trading caravan to multiple spots, but [Merchants] are well aware of the profits to be made. And if you could bring one here and nail him or her down to a reasonable price, I’d say…fourteen silver pieces for that lovely bolt over there might not be beyond possibility! Although, again, if I were in your shoes—or lovely yellow scarf—I might hint to multiple [Traders] and [Merchants] that a deal is to be had here. After all, competition spikes prices. Now, with that money, how were you going to reinvest it?”

The women were blinking hard at Magnolia’s speech, but some of them caught on. Lettice was among them. The old women gave Magnolia a frown, and then a smile that smoothed the lines on her face.

“Well, Lady Reinhart. My man would want to put the money into his field. Perhaps buy some more livestock. But I want to sew, and if I knew I’d have more work, I’d want something to help out here. How would you spend the money?”

Magnolia’s eyes twinkled. And perhaps, in that moment, some of the villagers put together the real reason the pink carriage had stopped here. But did they know the whole picture? Ressa couldn’t tell, but she did see how the women lined up to shake Magnolia’s hand and exchange a few words before she left. From old to young to child, who had to reach up as Magnolia bent to shake the tiny hand.

“Nothing is certain. But if your village continues selling cloth, it may prosper. With all the pitfalls and wonderful things that entails. You may change the market, ladies. But it does depend on you. And your decisions will affect the village. I do hope your counterparts realize that.”

Magnolia left them with that simple message. Lettice curtseyed, and Magnolia returned the gesture quite gracefully. Reynold, who’d had to stand still and put up with a range of ages flirting with him, gave a blushing bow. Ressa just nodded. Magnolia returned to the carriage, and they were gone in minutes. But their actions might linger for years. And the memory of the [Lady] who told Embrie’s women they had power? That might linger a lifetime.

One could only hope.



——



Magnolia Reinhart was in a better mood on the return to her mansion. She hummed as she sat back in her chair, holding a small, finely woven handkerchief, colored yellow slashed with blue.

It was true it wasn’t nearly the quality of the handkerchiefs that even her [Maids] used, but it was a gift. And if someone saw Lady Reinhart with it, perhaps Embrie would get a lot more attention. Or perhaps that was a bad idea so soon. Ressa was prepared to discuss the matter, but Magnolia didn’t bring it up. She just put the handkerchief on the table and folded her hands.

“They used the subsidies on wool well. And the gold was put to better use than in Talizmet. I saw new roofs, a fresh well. I wonder if the husbands grumbled?”

Ressa grunted.

“The sensible ones wouldn’t. They know how much damage leaking water can cause. But it was money well spent.”

“Sensible. The exact opposite of Talizmet. And not just because it was women who had a voice in how the money was used. Why is it that a bag of gold makes fools out of everyone, while slightly fuller pockets brings out prudence? Maybe next time I should simply send materials and workers, rather than gold, Ressa.”

“Isn’t that deciding how the money should be used?”

Ressa raised an eyebrow. Magnolia threw the handkerchief at her. The [Lady] calmed herself after a second.

“I’m very pleased, Ressa. Hopefully, the money we invested in the sheep herds will increase the flocks to Embrie’s benefit. Let’s make sure the [Shepherds] do well.”

Ressa nodded and made a note. That was all Magnolia Reinhart would do. Ensure that the sheep population increased in this area. She wouldn’t step in to save Embrie unless a natural disaster occurred. Outside of the advice she’d given the village, she would keep away. And she might never see Embrie’s people again. But if, someday, cloth from that small village appeared in Invrisil’s markets, it would be worth it.

That was what Magnolia Reinhart did with her days. She offered people a chance. A hand, or sometimes a leg to stand on. Never a ladder and certainly no flying carpets. Just a chance.

And not just for villagers too. On the way back, Magnolia Reinhart called on Reynold to slow his carriage and approach an interesting sight twice. She was an avid window-watcher, and the first time, she wanted to see a team of seven adventurers hauling a boar’s carcass out of the woods.

“Ressa, do you recognize that team?”

“Not from this far.”

“Reynold, ask them what their team is.”

The [Butler] hopped down from his seat and came back a minute later.

“They call themselves…Haresbane, Lady Reinhart. They’re a Bronze-rank team returning from a hunt. The local village put out a request for game to augment their stores until the first harvest. They’ve foraged some mushrooms as well.”

Magnolia watched with approval as the adventurers got to their task. Sometimes [Hunters] were hired for tasks like this, but for a village, it made sense that they’d put out a request for a team of adventurers, especially if they were hunting boars.

“I see. And they’re skinning the boar with some dedication. No meat wasted. And they’ve pulled in a good amount of game already. Ressa, put them on the list, by all means.”

The [Maid] nodded. She wrote down the name and location for one of the many [Informants] or [Spies] to look into. By the end of the week, Ressa would know the particulars of this team, and how reputable they were, what crimes they’d committed, if any, and how they were all regarded. She might even have transcripts of conversations they’d had, if she really wanted it.

“If they’re suitable, should I offer them some challenging requests?”

Magnolia tapped a lip as she inspected the team. There were two women and five men, ranging from teens to the late thirties.

“Yes. Nothing too arduous, but something to help them level.”

Ressa nodded. There was an art to that too. Crafting a suitable request that did what was needed—cull a growing animal population or halt a dangerous monster—while at the same time giving the teams a challenge they could level from without putting them in danger of their lives, was difficult. But it could help. One successful mission with a large reward could boost a team’s career.

Villages. Adventurers. If people knew how much Magnolia Reinhart meddled, would they be more reassured or more suspicious? Or would they be relieved to know she didn’t meddle nearly as much as some people thought? Certainly, this wasn’t anything new. Izril’s nobility often took note of things they had interest in, and the only variable was how overt they were in supporting their passions. Magnolia was discreet. Most of the time. As the second time the carriage slowed, she was anything but.

Traffic near Invrisil had slowed Reynold’s carriage, although he could have taken them off-road if need be. But he hadn’t, and the sight of a man racing down the road on horseback caught Magnolia’s eye. Not least because the man had the distinctive surcoat that marked him as a [Messenger], not a Runner. She tapped on the sliding panel.

“Reynold. Find out what that [Messenger] is delivering. If it’s not confidential.”

The carriage sped up. The [Messenger] barely slowed as Reynold called out to him. Magnolia heard a warning shout, and then as the pink carriage was recognized, a breathless exchange. The carriage kept level with the panting horse, and Magnolia eyed it.

“Rare to see [Messengers] around here. They’re normally attached to noble households. Perhaps he’s from one of them?”

Ressa nodded silently. [Messengers] were usually privately employed, as opposed to the public Runners.

“Sometimes I wonder why more Runners don’t use horses, Magnolia. It’s certainly faster.”

Magnolia smiled.

“Ressa, I would imagine that’s obvious.”

“Only to someone like you who delights in studying the minutiae of economics. Just tell me.”

The [Maid] refused to be baited. Magnolia sighed.

“It’s fascinating. No, really! You see, horses are quicker. And with a pony express, or stallion express, or what have you, you can indeed get a package moving faster than most Runners could dream of. At least, anyone who’s not a Garuda or a Centaur. But if you need to send written correspondence, a [Message] is faster than any horse. And if a [Messenger] or [Runner] switches horses, oh, three times on a hundred mile journey…how much more are you paying them?”

“Ah. So it’s about expense.”

Magnolia nodded happily. The [Messenger] was still shouting at Reynold breathlessly. She waved at the mare he was riding. The horse just stared back, panting as it raced its ghostly counterparts.

“Feet don’t require food. Nor do they throw horseshoes, require stabling, and so on. Runners are cheap, if slow. On the other hand, most Couriers can outdistance horses with ease. Which is better, a [Beast Master]-trained horse trained for years and ridden by a dedicated [Rider] that can be lamed or killed, or a Courier who can outrun almost anything she comes across?”

“I understand. You don’t need to belabor the point.”

Ressa sat back. She eyed the horse. She could probably outrun this [Messenger], at least if it were a quick dash. But she didn’t have the stamina to be a Runner. She was meant to kill things at speed and disappear. It used to bother Ressa that she immediately wondered how she’d kill anyone she came across. Now she was used to it. And that fact sometimes bothered her.

At last, the [Messenger] pulled away, or rather, the carriage slowed to let the horseman ride ahead.

“Well? Anything urgent, Reynold?”

Reynold spoke back to Magnolia and Ressa as he steered clear of the road.

“Ogre sighting, Lady Reinhart. A pack of them have descended and are laying waste to the nearby countryside. They’ve already sacked a village; most of the people fled and sent an immediate request for aid. But their gold and valuables were all left behind in the village. The [Messenger] is taking word to the Adventurer’s Guild, but…”

Ressa saw him grimace, which was unprofessional. But Reynold had been born in a small village just like Talizmet, Embrie, or the one being attacked. Magnolia’s eyes sharpened at once.

“How many Ogres, do they know?”

“Sixteen or so, Lady Reinhart. They think it’s an accurate count, but there might be more.”

“I know there are more. Reynold, get back to the [Messenger]. I will guarantee a twelve gold piece bounty on each Ogre head. Thirty for the leader. That should bring any Silver-rank team in the area to deal with the issue.”

Reynold nodded, and Ressa saw a flash of a smile as he turned forwards. The carriage accelerated, and before she shut the sliding panel, she heard Reynold shout to the [Messenger]. Magnolia sat back in her seat, thinking aloud.

“If there are sixteen here, there must be at least fifty total in the mountains. Ogres don’t multiply like Goblins, but they do grow fast. Still, this bounty is sufficient. If the Ogres are well-armed or have magical weapons, I will triple the bounty.”

Ressa nodded. The bounty was generous, but in this she would never call it a waste of funds. After all, Magnolia collected a tax on her lands, and ogres destroying villages and disrupting trade would take far more money than any bounty on their heads. And again, that was what separated Magnolia from other nobles.

“You don’t want to send Reynold and a team up into the mountains? He could probably deal with most of the ogres with some backup. Sacra and Phesofi alone might be enough.”

Magnolia pursed her lips before shaking her head, rejecting the idea.

“You know the family motto, Ressa. Gold for blood. I agree with it, at least in this instance. Bethal does it the opposite way. She’d have sent her Rose Knights in. But would they level from a fight like that? Not unless the Ogres were truly dangerous. She prefers to crush her foes. I would rather adventurers level up and gain notoriety from their deeds.”

Ressa nodded. So the adventurers might get hurt or die. But they would level where Bethal’s [Knights] would advance slowly and not grow as fast. That was Magnolia’s style. And it was why some people called her cruel or uncaring.

Izril’s people had to help themselves. Magnolia Reinhart could only give them aid. She would incentivize the Ogre’s deaths, but she would send none of her people to hunt down the monsters themselves.

“Speaking of notoriety—about our earlier discussion.”

Magnolia’s smiled faded. She looked at Ressa, mildly vexed.

“I was in a good mood, Ressa. Don’t let’s spoil it. Please?”

“Tell me again why it was better for you not to make an example of one or two of the loudest dissenters, Magnolia. You don’t need to poison them. But some humiliation, something to make the other nobility duck—you’ve done it before. Why not now?”

Magnolia was silent. She sat back, pensive, before looking up and replying slowly.

“I must have peace, Ressa. I do not want a political war on my hands. Not now I’ve received an invitation from my Drake counterparts. And it would be war if I used you or anyone else. I don’t have the Assassin’s Guild at my back. The Circle of Thorns is one thing, but rousing the wrath of my peers is far, far less preferable than enduring their petty slaps to the face.”

“As long as it is just that.”

The [Lady] Reinhart ignored that comment. She stared out a window, at a blurring landscape.

“The nobility have their way of doing things. They tolerate aberration and new ideas only as long as they can see clear benefit—and as long as it does not impact their lives. Tamper with it and we face every house as an enemy. It has taken me decades to foster the idea of peace between the Drakes and Humanity. I have my supporters. This squabble has put me in the position of coward, saboteur, and thug by threatening Tyrion. And yet, it has won me some small measure among the Drakes. I will take that.”

Ressa gave a grudging nod. That was true.

“But why not back up threats with teeth? Why not move on the Assassin’s Guild after they sent back their refusal? You could destroy it. Or at least, put a bounty on their guild that would make them run for cover.”

A few Named Adventurers sieging the guild would give Ressa no end of satisfaction. Although it would be a dangerous feat for any one adventurer or team, Named or not, to try it. Magnolia sighed.

“Because it would result in bloodshed. Much of it, Ressa. And while the Guild is my enemy, if I placed myself that openly against them—with the purpose of annihilating them rather than keeping them as—well, the Assassin’s Guild which is free to choose targets, I would have to kill them all. I rather grew tired of killing people, Ressa. It was not something I ever wanted to be good at.”

The [Maid] digested that.

“I’ve never heard you sound so melancholy about it.”

Magnolia Reinhart looked up shortly.

“Do you have nightmares about the people you’ve killed, Ressa?”

“Never.”

“Liar.”

The two women sat in silence. Ressa met Magnolia’s gaze. Slowly, the [Lady] shook her head.

“Better to be less feared than I was a decade ago, Ressa. Better that than even children checking their plates and cups when I pass them by. It may be better for a ruler of any kind to be feared, rather than loved. But what sort of heart can bear it? I missed their smiles.”

She looked at the handkerchief on the table. Ressa only sighed. She couldn’t argue with that. She flipped through her notes. Reynold had lost the [Messenger], and they would be back at the mansion shortly.

“Very well. I’ll drop it. In that case, aside from my petition for you to let me build you an army—”

“My family has an army, Ressa. Regis will give me artifacts if I need it. Izril needs more armies like a Goblin needs teeth. I have a household staff that can deal with nuisances.”

“But not Goblin Lords.”

Magnolia glowered. Ressa crossed the item off the docket.

“A discussion for tomorrow, then. I will convince you. Now…I do have a note from one of our households. The staff report conflicts with their guests. Care to guess who I’m referring to?”

Magnolia closed her eyes for a second and massaged her temples.

“Our guests from another world?”

“Yes.”

“Are they…?”

“Safe. Unhappy, but safe. But vocally unhappy. They want to speak to you. It seems they quite hate being adventurers.”

“Which part? Killing monsters? Diving into their guts for treasure? Risking their lives? I wonder why? They are free to pursue any profession they wish.”

“It seems they would like not to pursue a profession. They want to return to the mansion.”

“No.”

Magnolia gave Ressa a bright smile. The [Maid] returned it mirthlessly. She wouldn’t entertain the idea either. The otherworlders Magnolia had collected had been a nightmare of incivility towards the servants. And they caused a mess.

“Their argument is, and I’m referencing their complaints directly here, that you failed to provide them with any way to succeed. They have no magical gear, no support, little training other than the services they can pay for in their city—”

The thunderous frown on Magnolia’s face darkened further. For the second time today, genuine heat entered her voice.

“And why do they deserve magical artifacts, pray? I am giving them an opportunity. I give everyone an opportunity to rise or fall. They have chosen to sit in the mud and weep about it.”

“That is their complaint.”

Ressa calmly put the piece of paper down. Magnolia stared past her [Maid]. Then her eyes focused. She blinked and intoned her next words very slowly and carefully.

“They came here with nothing, Ressa. Nothing, as lost children, half of them stealing from honest people within the first day of arriving. And they expected me to give them magical swords and treat them like conquering heroes in our backwater world. Because their world can blow cold air out of a box. I say no. Once they prove they can fight without magic swords, they can use them. If they can master a spell by themselves, I will give them a spellbook. If they find a profession and excel, I will sponsor whatever they need. But I do not believe in handouts. Tell them that.”

“As you wish.”

Satisfied, Ressa made a note. Magnolia huffed for a few seconds, then glanced up at Ressa.

“Do you tell me these things just to annoy me, Ressa?”

“I would never.”

The [Maid] lied to Magnolia’s face. Her employer made a fist. She punched, and Ressa leaned aside. One of the perks of being both [Assassin] and [Maid] was that no matter how angry Magnolia got, she couldn’t hit Ressa. Sometimes, it felt like they were young women still. And then something happened that made them feel as old as…

Teriarch.



——



Magnolia and Ressa returned to the mansion. Reynold immediately went to the kitchens for lunch and a deserved break. Ressa was shuffling her notes, deciding what other issue Magnolia should address first—one of her Gold-rank teams she was actively sponsoring, forging ties abroad, hunting down clues for artifacts—when all of a sudden, she looked up. She dropped the stack of paper in the middle of the hallway.

“Intruders.”

The [Lady] spun as she reached for her door. The staff in the hallway looked up. Bekia, who was polishing the windows next to Mavi, raised her head to howl. Ressa cut her off.

“Bekia, silence. They’re not in the mansion. They’re outside the walls. My wards are all going off.”

Magnolia’s brows snapped together.

“How many and where?”

“The garden and the eastern walls. Twenty, ten on each side.”

“Did they trip a ward by accident? Or are they open?”

Ressa grimaced.

“They’ve tripped three wards in total. But they’re trying to be stealthy. Either this is a ruse—no. What’s the point of revealing themselves? This feels like amateurs. This is a test.”

Magnolia’s brows shot up.

“Of our defenses? We had that with Ryoka, remember? And those were professionals. What is this, then?”

The two had their answer as Reynold slid around the corner. He was panting after having run to the third floor in seconds.

“Lady Reinhart! Miss Ressa! There are two dozen Runners at the front gate! They all have a message for you!”

Ressa turned, disbelieving. That had to be the stupidest trap she’d ever heard of. Only, it wasn’t a trap, at least in full. Reynold had taken one of the packages from the City Runners, despite the Runner’s strict instructions to deliver only to Magnolia Reinhart herself. The [Butler] had checked it twice, but Ressa intercepted the black rose before she let Magnolia handle it. It was clean. But the message was as clear as the look on Magnolia’s face.

“The black rose of cowardice. Well. Well, well. And all the Runners have the rose?”

Reynold was as versed in flower language as Ressa. His face was very pale as he nodded.

“All of them, milady. And they all come from different senders. I—I will turn away the Runners at once if you wish it. I do not believe they are aware of what the gesture means.”

“No. They would not be. Or else they have spines of steel. Well, so this is the escalation of my peers’ ire with me.”

Magnolia gently inspected the black rose. Her hand trembled a bit as she gripped the stem between two fingers.

“A black rose. For me. I stood at the Sacrifice of Roses. This is—eminently fitting as an insult. A coward who would threaten her own peers is a coward as great as one who fled the Goblin King’s armies, is that it? I won’t say they don’t have a point. But what sort of a coward attacks a Drake city that has done no wrong? What kind of a coward welcomes the slaughter of tens of thousands?”

She looked up, eyes flashing. Ressa’s own hand was on the enchanted dagger. Her blood was boiling. Magnolia Reinhart straightened her back, and the air around her grew tense. Heavy. Fury rolled off her like waves.

“Even for an insult. This is too much. Call us cowards. But we fought at First Landing. Nothing will change that. This is beyond tolerable. They have declared war on me, my peers. Or else they invite it. How many declared, Reynold? No—”

Her eyes widened. The smell of fury and taste of it hanging around her vanished in a heartbeat. Magnolia took a breath and controlled herself. Then her eyes opened and narrowed.

“I wasn’t the only one.”

“Magnolia?”

Ressa forgot her station for a second. Magnolia’s eyes had become calculating, and her pupils were flickering, darting from idea to idea that only she could see.

“It is not just me. The flowers are such a pointed reference. And whoever’s at my walls—this is a coordinated attack! The other ladies who were with me must have received similar gifts. And if so—”

She spun to Ressa.

“Warn the other [Ladies], Ressa. Bethal, Pryde, Wuvren—all of them! If someone dares strike at me, they will certainly be assaulted.”

Ressa turned. She leapt down the hallway, calling for Phesofi. The [Mage] sent the [Message] spell there and then, but had no answer. And, barely a minute later, as Ressa sprinted into Magnolia’s private sitting room, she saw Reynold standing to attention, sword drawn, while Magnolia sat at the table.

“Magnolia. We need to take you to the safe room.”

“Do you think the people skulking outside the walls will really pose a threat, Ressa?”

Magnolia raised her eyebrows. She was calm now, even cold. But her eyes were locked on the rose. Ressa hesitated.

“There might be a second wave. Or this could all be a feint.”

“No. I think I know exactly what’s going on. This is a message, Ressa. A declaration. And the [Assassins], if they are [Assassins], are a separate message entirely. From the same source? I think not. I won’t hide. Prepare a welcome for our guests. If they even get here.”

Ressa wavered. But Magnolia was looking at her, and the [Lady] Reinhart’s voice was the voice of authority at this moment. Her voice was steady as she picked up the cup and sipped from it.

“You sent the [Message] spell?”

“Yes, Magnolia.”

The woman nodded lightly.

“No doubt we are too late for a warning. But it should not matter. Unless someone is—check on Bethal. As for the rest? They should be fine.”

Her eyes glittered. Reynold gulped softly as Magnolia turned to look out the window.

“Deserved or not, this insult is grave. And the assault on peers of the realm? It hasn’t happened on this scale for years. So there is a message twice-over. Peace be gone. And everyone is vulnerable, even the Deadly Flower of the North and her delicate peers. However. Someone has forgotten the flowers of Izril have thorns.”



——



Once upon a time, she had a father. And then the Second Antinium War engulfed the continent. And her father died in the Sacrifice of Roses. She wasn’t even born, then. She was a surprise. A single bloom in the aftermath, when her mother discovered her father had left something of him behind.

A memory. Eliasor had grown up under her mother’s care, in her household. For nine years—no, ten now, she had heard the same. Her father had died a hero. He had marched against the Goblin King and saved a continent.

But she had been a hero too, hadn’t she? Eliasor’s mother, Patricia, had been there. She had walked with her husband through the same trial, and the only difference was that she had lived.

She had been a hero. But she was dead too. It had happened months ago. It felt like a second ago. Eliasor still saw her mother’s head, staring past her. And then the [Assassin] falling to the blade of the [Chevalier], Thomast. It was some small consolation. But it didn’t help.

And as memories worked, it was never complete until she appeared. Lady Magnolia. She had been Eliasor’s mother’s old friend. Her mother had always spoken of Magnolia Reinhart as if she could do anything. But she couldn’t save Eliasor’s mother. In the girl’s memory, Magnolia appeared. She pointed down at Eliasor.

“You are a [Lady] of Izril now, Eliasor Melissar. Your line begins and ends with you. I fear you must rise. I will support you and protect you. But I cannot take your place. I would that I could.”

Was that how she had said it? Somehow else? Eliasor didn’t remember the words. But she remembered gaining the class. Her mother had always said that it would be when Eliasor turned ten. Or thirteen. Fourteen at the latest. Eliasor remembered going to sleep excited, dreaming of that moment when she’d become a [Lady]. When she’d gain a class.

Now, it felt like a stone on her shoulders. Everything did. Life weighed Eliasor down. She didn’t sleep. She couldn’t. Even sleeping draughts brewed by [Alchemists] didn’t help. They couldn’t change the truth.

Eliasor was alone. Her mother was dead. And if she had a choice, she would have lain in her room until she faded away. But her servants wouldn’t let her. They had called for Lady Reinhart after Eliasor stopped eating.

Magnolia Reinhart had sent another [Lady] in her place. By magical carriage, another [Lady] had come. Less famous, but no less fearsome. Lady Zanthia, withered and old, with cold hands and iron hair and face. She had taken Eliasor from her home.

Now Eliasor was a guest of Lady Zanthia’s. A young [Lady] housed by Zanthia’s house to learn to become a [Lady]. She had six peers of the realm, who all studied with her.

Eliasor hated them all. She was a [Lady], and so were they. But the six with her had been expelled from their houses. Well, five had. For being lazy, promiscuous, rude, arrogant, and lazy again. The sixth was just there because she had to learn from Zanthia according to her family. They didn’t like being there.

Nor did Eliasor. She resented Lady Zanthia and the other members of her house. Three [Ladies] including Zanthia had charge of the young wards, and they watched the seven like hawks. Eliasor couldn’t lie about. She had tried, but Zanthia had ways of getting her up. Even when Eliasor tried to ignore a prodding finger, she couldn’t ignore smelling salts, cold buckets of water. A full [Lady]’s voice of authority.

It was unkind. Eliasor sometimes wept into her pillow. Her mother had never been so unkind. But Zanthia would not let her rest. She was pure evil. As evil as the Goblin King.

All this was so. Eliasor had been studying under Zanthia for two months. The woman was letting them walk through the quiet city where her wards resided at one of her estates. It was meant to be a treat, although the old woman was quite clear none of the girls had earned it.

“I do not recall a single instance where I would compliment you seven for having learned a lesson. In your studies, both in etiquette, law, and rhetoric, you are all quite obstinate failures. But the mind wastes without activity. So here we are. Follow close. We can always continue our lessons in your rooms.”

The old woman’s cracked, precise voice made Eliasor grit her teeth. But anything was better than having Zanthia talk at her and demand answers. So she meekly followed Zanthia down the busy street. The [Lady] walked with a small escort of the town’s guards. The other young [Ladies] giggled and looked around, some glancing sidelong at the handsome young men guarding them, who blushed. Eliasor, who was ten, just looked down at her feet. But apparently even that was cause for censure, because Lady Zanthia stopped the group after a dozen paces and turned.

“Eliasor. Spine straight. Shoulders back. Mind your pace.”

The girl sagged. She was too tired. She opened her mouth to protest. She looked up, and Zanthia’s glare skewered her. For once, Eliasor glared back.

She wanted to go back to her room. She had dreamed of her mother again. She didn’t want to be here. She wanted to be home. She wanted to go to her mother’s bed and lie there. But Zanthia didn’t care. The old woman clicked her tongue as the other young [Ladies] winced and fell silent. Zanthia’s daughters, two younger [Ladies], sighed impatiently as the old woman began to lecture.

“I teach young women such as yourselves to become [Ladies]. It is not simply a matter of being born or inheriting a class. And proper posture is one of the foundations of true nobility. Eliasor. Do you hear me?”

“I hear you, Lady Zanthia. But I don’t care. I don’t want to be a [Lady].”

The other young girls gasped. Zanthia’s eyes narrowed. Backchat was cause for discipline.

“I don’t recall ever asking your opinion, Lady Eliasor Melissar. And as I understand it, you are a [Lady]. You have the class. And you are last of your line. You have no right to refuse.”

Eliasor jerked as if Zanthia slapped her, which the old woman never had. She glared up at Zanthia, seething with more hatred than she’d ever had. Zanthia returned the look impassively.

“You have no right. A [Lady] may not lie in her bed and refuse eating. If I must feed you with a straw, I will. And if I must drag you kicking and screaming and mold you into a [Lady] with my bare hands, I suppose that will be my duty. I’ve had worse students than you, girl. Worse than any of you. I taught Magnolia Reinhart how to sit straight and Lady Pryde to mind her tongue. By all means, resist. But you are [Ladies], and I will have you uphold your duty.”

Her tone reminded Eliasor of her mother. That was the worst thing. Patricia Melissar had scolded Eliasor three times in her life like that. Eliasor’s eyes filled with hot, frustrated tears, and she desperately wished none of the other [Ladies] could see, or the [Guardsmen] or townsfolk. But she couldn’t help it. She was about to scream or rush at Zanthia and try to strike the old [Lady], though she was as tough as metal. But then it happened.

A horde of Runners. Shouts in the street as the town [Guardsmen] belatedly tried to stop them. A cry. Zanthia turning and her voice snapping an order.

“Cease this at once!”

And then Eliasor saw it. The first black rose, offered on bent knee. Towards Lady Zanthia. First one, then another. And then over twenty Runners, all offering the same token. The same insult.

Zanthia went white and then crimson with fury. Her two daughters gasped. The other young [Ladies] shrank back in horror. But Eliasor felt a jump of visceral delight.

Served her right.

“This is a message from my peers?”

Zanthia stared at the black roses. The Runners looked at each other, unaware of the message. But Eliasor knew. She looked gloatingly at Zanthia. She didn’t know where the old woman had gone a few weeks back, but she had heard the outcome. All of Izril had. Zanthia had threatened peers of the realm—blackmailed Lord Tyrion Veltras with Magnolia Reinhart!

So this only made sense to Eliasor. It was justice. And it served Zanthia right. She hadn’t been there. She wasn’t a warrior like Eliasor’s mother and father. Eliasor raised burning eyes, wishing she had had the idea herself. But her angry pleasure faded when she saw Zanthia’s face.

The old woman was staring at the roses. And there was a haunted look in her eye. A haunted, painful look that Eliasor recognized. She had seen it in the mirror. And then there was fury. The same fury in Eliasor’s chest. The old [Lady] turned, and the Runners quailed. The other [Ladies] dipped their eyes. The townspeople froze. But Eliasor met Zanthia’s gaze.

“I was there. I marched with the men and women of First Landing. I walked with the banners of Melissar. I saw House Walchaís fall. I saw my sons die like lions. I saw it.”

She looked at Eliasor. Lost and tired. And the girl stared up at the old [Lady]. She had been there with Eliasor’s father? With her mother? Suddenly, the girl had a hundred questions to ask.

But she never got the chance. Because at that moment, they came. Shadows out of a side street. Flashes of steel, a leaping body past one of the Street Runners. A sword, cutting. The [Guardsman] stumbled. A sword protruded from his neck, and he choked blood. Eliasor’s eyes went wide. A black shape wrenched the shortsword through the neck, sawing. The head came loose. The [Guardsman] collapsed.

Another raised a sword. An arrow took him through the chest. Black figures were everywhere, overwhelming the town’s guard. Black shapes, covered in clothing that hid their identity.

[Assassins].

The street erupted into a panic. The townsfolk ran back, screaming for the Watch. The Runners turned and fled. The remaining [Guardsmen] closed ranks. Eliasor saw one of the older [Ladies] shouting.

“Close ranks! Keep together!”

The other girls fled towards her, sobbing in terror. They had never seen someone die. Never seen so much blood. But Eliasor had. She stared at the [Assassin] who’d killed the first [Guardsman]. And she heard someone calling her name.

“Eliasor! Run, girl!”

Eliasor knew she should. The black figure was cutting down another [Guardsman]. She knew she should flee or he would kill her. But…what was the point? Her life was hollow. Her mother was gone. Her father was long gone.

And the [Assassin] was here. Not just one, either. Nearly a dozen. They had come for her. Like her mother. Deep down, Eliasor had always known they would. No matter what Lady Magnolia and Lady Zanthia promised. But the realization of her nightmare made the moment no less horrible.

This [Assassin] was no dark figure like the one in Eliasor’s dreams that strode into the ballroom time and time again with her mother’s head. This one was shorter, almost portly. And clumsy. He had the [Guardsman]’s severed head in one hand. And as he turned to the [Ladies], he raised it.

He tried to brandish the head, like the [Assassin] that had killed her mother. But this man had made a poor cut. Bone and sinew hung from the head, and blood spattered his clothing. Eliasor heard him curse. It was the only sound in the world to her. The head and the black figure were the only thing.

“Eliasor! Run away!”

One of the other girls shouted it. But Eliasor didn’t run. The [Assassin] was coming towards her, bloody sword in hand. And she didn’t run. She didn’t move towards him. She just held still, as the other [Assassins] fought and killed the guard. Eliasor stared into the two eyes visible, the strip of flesh not covered by cloth. She thought the pale brown eyes were too normal. Too ordinary to belong to her death.

But there he stood. The [Assassin] held the dripping head in one hand and lowered the blade. A touch awkwardly. As if he didn’t know where to stand or how to act. Like Eliasor sometimes felt at court. She looked up at him. And the man wavered.

“Aren’t you going to run?”

Even his voice was ordinary. A tad breathless, muffled by the cloth. Eliasor shook her head. She replied as blood thudded through her veins.

“A [Lady] faces death without fear.”

She raised her chin. For a better cut than the poor [Guardsman]. The [Assassin] wavered. Then he half-shrugged and swung his blade. Eliasor Melissar, who was now ten, watched the blade swing for her throat and waited for the red arc to reunite her with her mother.

But the blade never touched her skin. A hand spotted with age and wrinkled with time reached out, and the blade halted. Lady Zanthia caught Eliasor with one hand behind her back. The [Lady]’s arm gripped Eliasor tightly to her. And her other hand blocked the blade, an inch from Eliasor’s neck. The [Assassin] strained and cursed, but he couldn’t move it forwards. And Lady Zanthia turned to the girl.

Eliasor looked up with wide eyes at the old woman. Lady Zanthia knelt, her dress dirtying in the blood and dirt of the street. But she didn’t look at that. Her eyes met Eliasor’s. And the girl saw Lady Zanthia smile. It was a smile that hid tears, shock, and emotions that Eliasor had no words for. A [Lady]’s smile. The old woman looked at Eliasor, and then she embraced the girl.

“Well said. Well said, Patricia Melissar’s daughter. You will be as great a [Lady] as your mother. Perhaps greater.”

The [Assassin] wrenched his blade free from the block in the air. He stepped back and swung at the two. Eliasor’s eyes went wide. Zanthia turned her head, and her eyes narrowed. She raised a palm and flicked it.

“Begone.”

And the [Assassin] flew. He cartwheeled through the air, screaming, and struck the wall of a building ten feet distant. The fighting [Assassins] and wounded [Guardsmen] turned to stare. Lady Zanthia rose.

“Avi, take Lady Eliasor.”

Lady Avi stepped forwards. Eliasor felt a hand pull her back. She saw Lady Zanthia step forwards.

“[Guardsmen], stand back. Guard my wards and my fellow [Ladies].”

She gestured. Uncertain, the [Guardsmen] stumbled away from their opponents, clutching at half-severed limbs. The [Assassins] regarded Zanthia, eleven of them. They spread out. One raised a bow. Zanthia regarded the archer. The [Assassin] froze. And then the arrow flew.

Fast, fast. A shaft aimed straight at Zanthia’s unguarded heart. But the [Lady] just raised a hand and flicked a finger. The arrow broke in midair.

“Impossible.”

One of the black figures muttered it. Another raised a hand and threw something. A dart. Zanthia flicked a second finger, and the metal dart clanged in midair and clattered to the ground. The [Assassins] stared at her.

“Together, then.”

They backed up, drawing bows and daggers. One grabbed a wand and rolled behind a cart. Eliasor stared as Zanthia calmly turned her head. One of the other girls made a squeaking sound.

“But how—is she a [Warrior]?”

The [Lady] who grabbed Eliasor, Lady Avi, smiled as her companion snorted.

“Have you heard of a warrior who could do that? That isn’t a class. It’s a Skill.”

“What Skill?”

A second dart flew. Zanthia swatted it aside. An [Assassin] rushed at her, and she flicked the figure off her feet as if swatting a fly away. Lady Avi watched her mother.

“[Deft Hand]. It is one of the first Skills any [Lady] learns. But it is by no means weak. Refined, it is a weapon, a shield as strong as magic.”

The [Assassins] loosed as one. Dozens of missiles flew at Zanthia from every side. The old [Lady] flicked her wrist. The arrows snapped out of the sky as if something had struck them. And then she turned. The young [Ladies] in her care stared at her with wide eyes, Eliasor included. Zanthia smiled, and the old lady’s smile was the most beautiful thing Eliasor could remember. Lady Zanthia spoke softly.

“Young women, be brave. We are the flowers of Izril. And we do not wilt before cowards hiding behind masks.”

Behind her, the [Assassins] dropped their bows. They charged her with a roar, screaming in dissonant harmony. And Lady Zanthia walked through them. She raised her arm and scattered them like petals on the breeze. She spun, and a bolt of lightning arced around her hand. She sent it back in a roar of light and sound that blinded and deafened Eliasor. A black shape exploded into flames. A second spun past Zanthia, clutching at a twisted arm.

But still they came. Left, right, above, below. From behind—Zanthia twisted, and the enchanted blade bounced off a bit of air as she flicked her hand. Now she was using both arms, and the [Assassins] spun around her, going flying as she deflected them. But they were so quick.

Zanthia took a step forwards, and then another, her hands moving in every direction. And then she took another step. And another. And suddenly, she lowered her hands. Her arms came up, and she held an imaginary bit of air. Suddenly, and without reason, she was dancing.

Yes, dancing. Dancing across the street, whirling, as if an invisible partner held her. For a second Eliasor couldn’t believe her eyes.

Neither could the [Assassins]. They picked themselves up and stared. But then they leapt. And they went flying.

This time, it was part of the dance. As Zanthia whirled, the [Assassins] around her were knocked back. A step forwards forced the attackers in front of her back. Zanthia’s eyes closed. And she danced.

It was an old dance. Something that belonged in a ballroom. Eliasor had seen it before. But now Zanthia danced the weaving, turning steps alone. Lady Avi breathed out slowly as she watched the old woman trace a path amid the [Assassins].

“[Gliding Steps]. [Waltz: The Traveler’s Journey]. [Polite Deflection]. The qualities of a [Lady] are more than the Skills we are born with, Lady Eliasor.”

It occurred to the black killers that the other [Ladies] were an easy target. So they turned to the remaining [Guardsmen] and the women. But Lady Zanthia spun through them, an invisible force that hurled them aside like toys. And something was happening. The patch of air in Zanthia’s arm where her dance partner should be was…twisting. Changing.

“What’s happening?”

Eliasor stared at the air that Zanthia held. It had been air, but now it looked like an indistinct figure. A person, hazy, but growing more detailed with each step. Lady Avi inhaled, and Eliasor heard the catch in her voice.

“Lady Avi? What’s that?”

The woman looked down. Then she gestured at Lady Zanthia and the specter. Now Eliasor saw a face. Legs. Clothing appearing in details with each passing second. Ali’s voice was quiet. Awed.

“One of the ultimate Skills of our class. [The Eternal Partner]. That a [Lady] might never dance alone.”

Eliasor looked ahead. Now she saw him in his entirety. A smiling face. A tall figure, taller than Zanthia. Gracefully curved to accommodate her height. And on the dance went as the [Assassins] changed targets again, sensing the danger.

The [Lady] danced with her ghostly partner across the street, and the dark shapes armed with weapons charged her. But though they leapt and spun, slashing wildly, Lady Zanthia danced through them all. The weapons glanced sideways. The figures staggered, pushed back by an invisible force.

And the arrows curved in flight. They missed the elderly woman and the phantom who held her hand as she glided across the rough ground as if it were ice. With each step, a missile flew astray, striking one of the attackers, or a shape now charging the younger [Ladies] and their escorts tripped, or went flying.

But that wasn’t all. What drew the young Eliasor’s eyes was the dancer who held Lady Zanthia’s arm, led her on a quick, progressive step, a natural turn. And then—gently, a slow twirl with one arm raised as Lady Zanthia slowly spun underneath.

And with every step, the phantom seemed to grow in clarity. In focus. From a ghost, a pale distortion in the air, he took color and form. Until a man danced with Lady Zanthia. His skin was dark. He wore an old-fashioned doublet, decades out of style. And his neck bore the distinctive stitch marks of his people. He smiled down at Lady Zanthia, and the old woman’s lips turned up as she walked forwards with him.

The [Assassins] fell back as the figure stepped back. He bowed, one hand out, and Zanthia did the same. They came to rest, and if you stared at them and nowhere else, you could believe the simple street in the city was, in fact, a ballroom.

He was dressed so. In clothes from another age. And he couldn’t have been more than thirty years of age. He looked at Zanthia, and the old woman, her hair pinned back, her face lined, smiled, and sixty years fell away in a moment. She inclined her head, and the figure turned. He was no longer a ghost, but real. Cotton-and-blood. And he drew his sword and gave the [Assassins] a bow.

Wide-eyed, they stepped back. One raised a bow, and the Stitch-man darted forwards. His sword slashed once, and the black-clad shape fell, clutching at an arm cut to the bone. They fell back, and the dancer set them to flight. He darted left and right, his sword a blur. He leapt, and his figure split as he landed. Two figures now advanced.

He had Skills of his own! The Stitch-man engaged an [Assassin] in a clash of blades as the attackers began to flee in earnest. One took a parting shot at Lady Zanthia. A [Fireball] bloomed, and the [Lady] turned. She twisted her hand, and the orb of fire flicked upwards and exploded in the air. She stepped back. And the Stitch-man turned to the next opponent as his phantom-double downed his opponent.

“Who is that?”

A shaky voice from another girl. Zanthia watched as the Stitch-man pursued the ten, no, nine [Assassins] now. He was everywhere, and his doubles struck with all the reality of the original. Men and women died. And the [Ladies] watched. Ali’s voice was soft.

“That was her first husband. The Emir Sandel of Chandrar. He passed away nearly four decades ago. Father.”

“Father.”

The other [Lady], Lady Havilet, standing next to Avi agreed. Eliasor looked up at them. And her heart squeezed. She clung to Avi’s dress. Because she’d just realized that they’d lost their father too.

And their mother walked through from the fleeing black figures. She followed Emir Sandel as he put them to flight and then to death, laughing. Eliasor could hear his voice. And she saw him turning, as if to show off to Zanthia. The old woman waved a hand, and Eliasor thought she was scolding him.

And the black-clad murderers died. The last fell back, begging for mercy. But Emir Sandel had none to give. He saluted the figure and swung his sword. And then he straightened with a long sigh.

With the last of the [Assassins], the shade of Sandel paused. He was growing more indistinct. Less colorful. Imprecise. He turned back, his form blurring and fading. Like an old memory. He strode across the ground, towards Lady Zanthia as his clone disappeared, the Skill undone. And so too was the man’s memory. He paused once before Lady Zanthia, and he was only a blur. Still, he knelt, and she held out her hand. Across a lifetime, he reached for her.

Before he touched her fingers, he was gone. And the only proof of his existence was the blood he had left on the ground and the certainty in Eliasor’s heart that she had seen him. That left only Zanthia. And she looked old as she turned back to her wards and her daughters. Old, as four decades returned.

“It appears our outing was disturbed, [Ladies]. But take note. A [Lady] has work to do after a disaster. Not least is tending to our guards before their limbs are lost.”

She clapped her hands briskly, and time resumed. The townsfolk crept back out of hiding. The City Watch arrived too late, shamefaced, perhaps having delayed their arrival. The Runners were promptly arrested. And Lady Zanthia stood amid it all, directing the children off the street because this was not a sight for them, having the [Assassins]’ bodies and weapons collected, tending to the wounded. She said nothing of what had passed on the street until the [Ladies] were walking home. Without an escort; there really wasn’t a point.

“Lady Zanthia? What was that Skill?”

Eliasor had to ask. And for once, the old [Lady] didn’t snap her head off. She looked at Eliasor appraisingly, and the girl thought that Zanthia finally saw something she liked. So the old [Lady] ducked her head as if she were embarrassed.

“We are creatures of attention, young lady. We are not desperate [Criers] who demand attention or sycophantic [Bards] who strum our vanity onto any ear that would listen. We are [Ladies]. We steal every beam of light we step into. We attract the eye and mind and demand respect and consideration. By elegance or wit, beauty or passion. That is what it means to bear our class.”

It was an answer and not at the same time. Eliasor nodded. She brushed at something wet on her cheek and found it was someone’s blood. Unconsciously, she shuddered and reached out. And Lady Zanthia’s hand found hers. As if she had been waiting for Eliasor to reach out. The old woman took Eliasor’s bloody hand in her own. And her voice was gentle as she led Eliasor back to her home. At least, for now.

“It was ill-done, this attack. Wrong, Eliasor. Just as your mother’s death was. Someone must be held to account. You see, this is not the way we do battle. Yes, we of Izril war amongst ourselves. But seldom with open blood. Someone has violated that law. Magnolia threatened it, but fools have forgotten why we play politics instead of war. And in doing so, they have forgotten that the flowers of Izril are not shrinking blossoms.”

Zanthia looked towards the sky, and her hand gently tightened over Eliasor’s.

“But I promise you, you will have vengeance. Whether by Magnolia’s hand or mine. Or your own. Never forget them. That is what makes you strong.”



——



Two hundred miles east and south, another [Lady] was entertaining. Her estate was open to callers. And, oh, there were many. The [Lady] flittered from guest to guest, never staying long, and every eye followed her.

She was nearly sixty years old herself. But the years that had turned Lady Zanthia into iron seemed not to touch Lady Wuvren. She laughed as she swung around the dance floor, dancing, chattering, snacking, flirting. And if you looked at her, you would never guess her age. Never in a million years, because time had lost meaning for Wuvren.

She looked like a much younger woman. She could have been twenty-eight. She was in the prime of her life.

True, betimes she seemed older. A woman in her full thirties. A mother of forty, bending to speak to a child. It came out in the way she spoke, the age in her eyes and voice. Sometimes. But in appearance, she was almost always a younger woman, with little more than two decades and a half behind her.

And it wasn’t an illusion. Her skin was as fair as it had ever been, her hair—now styled in the fashion of the day, long and sweeping with only the hint of a curl—was as vibrant as it had been back then. She even acted young, which befuddled one of her guests, an [Earl] from Terandria beyond belief.

“I must confess, I had heard of your beauty in [Bard]’s tales, milady. I am struck. Simply struck that not a word was untrue.”

The man took Wuvren’s hand, searching her eyes for even a hint of the age he knew she bore. But Wuvren’s touch felt smoother than most of the young women he’d courted. And her eyes danced with merry delight. Teasingly, she snatched her hand back.

“Oh? You came all this way on a [Bard]’s song? And you claim not one word is untrue. Do you call yourself my admirer, then, sir?”

She teased him gently. The [Earl] blushed and stammered.

“Well, I—one hears rumors. I hate to question it, but I have heard rumors. A [Lady]’s age is of course your own business. But—”

He trailed off because he had no idea how to proceed without giving further offense. Some of the other men in attendance looked appalled, but Wuvren just laughed. She spun around the Earl, and somehow he found he’d linked arms with her. The young? [Lady] leaned on his arm and spoke with a sigh.

“Some women wear their years like weights. Others bear them lightly. Myself, I prefer to wear it like a veil. Which is to say, as a delicate façade. Or not at all. Does it bother you that much?”

She looked up at the [Earl]. He fell over himself to say no. Wuvren laughed.

“Then you must join me for dinner. After a ride? I have a delightful hunt planned, and I would love to see your skill with the bow.”

She left the [Earl] before he could think to protest. On the way, Wuvren passed by a stately man with a trimmed chestnut beard. She eyed the man as she stood to attention, chatting with another woman. The man turned with a sigh to regard Wuvren and the [Earl] who was watching her every move.

“You’ve won another convert, mother.”

“Don’t fret so, Gilliad. And hold my arm to chase away the bad men if you don’t want to lose me.”

“Mother, please. Must you?”

The older-looking man was appalled and resigned. Wuvren laughed and threw her arms around him, attracting looks of jealousy from most of the men in the room. Gilliad just sighed.

That was how the roses came. And the [Assassins]. In fact, the Runners never made it into the estate; they were stopped at the door. But the [Assassins] were more determined and leapt down from the open windows overhead. They landed among the men and women, eliciting shouts of horror.

“Lady Wuvren! We come for your head!”

The lead [Assassin] pointed their blade at Lady Wuvren. A tad uncertainly; the [Lady] didn’t look the part. Gilliad reached for his dagger, but Wuvren pushed her son back. She stepped forwards as nine shapes spread out, warding the other guests and bodyguards back. Wuvren’s guards stopped as they saw the leader’s blade was inches from Wuvren’s chest. But the [Lady] never blinked. She put one hand on the flat of the blade and pushed it from her chest. Then she winked at the [Assassin] in front of her.

“Would you hit a [Lady], Miss?”

“I—how did you—what?”

Caught off-guard, the [Assassin] stuttered. She lowered her blade. Wuvren sighed. Two men and a woman swooned.

“I couldn’t bear it. Blood, shed upon my floors. Yours or mine. Wouldn’t you like it more if you sat? I have all the time to talk with a delightful young woman. Or man. [Assassin] or not, I always have room on my staff. Would you at least lower the blade so we could talk?”

Her voice was hypnotic. The female [Assassin] lowered her blade. Another black-clad figure growled and shook his head. He grabbed her hand, twisting her head and his away from Wuvren.

“You idiot. I told you not to look at her! She’s got charmed eyes!”

“And a charming face. Tell me, sir, would you care to—”

The [Assassin] leapt back, swearing. Gilliad’s dagger slashed the spot where he had been. The [Assassin] grabbed his companions, who all jerked stupidly.

“Retreat! Her Skill is too powerful!”

The [Assassins] looked at their new leader and stared at Wuvren. Two never looked away. The rest ran for it. Three went down as Wuvren’s guests went for them. The last four had horses hidden for a getaway. Wuvren walked and saw them flogging the horses, racing away as her guards caught them.

“Well. That man was quite good. But I nearly had the young woman.”

Wuvren complained to her son. She sighed.

“Maybe I’ll leave her with a gift. Here. [Heartbreaker Kiss].”

She put two fingers to her lips and flicked them towards one of the retreating shapes. The female [Assassin] jerked and clutched at her chest as she rode away. Wuvren saw Gilliad glancing at her. She explained lightly.

“Heart broken. But not dead. I’m not Bethal or Magnolia. Or even Zanthia, for that matter. Gilliad, find out who they were. But be careful. And, oh, send word that I need to speak to Magnolia.”

“Yes, Mother.”

The man retreated, shaking his head. The other guests flocked around Wuvren, shaken. The [Earl] was particularly upset. His enchanted sword was bared as he glared at the retreating shapes.

“What was that? Is this some kind of Izril plot? Is this how politics are done in Izril?”

Wuvren purred as she smiled around at her guests. Then she focused on the Terandrian man.

“Not usually, my good [Earl]. But I am allied with Lady Magnolia Reinhart. It appears her acquaintances are the subject of some ire. A silly quarrel for such a reaction. But I fear we are under attack nevertheless. I wonder, who will protect us?”

She gently swooned into the [Earl]’s arms. He held her for a perfect moment as she fell against him. Her soft arms, the gentle pulse in her veins, and her flushed face—surely she couldn’t be as old as they said? And even if she was, who cared? The man’s thoughts quickly eroded and he bent to profess something, anything.

Then one of the other suitors kicked the Terandrian [Earl] in the back, and half a dozen hands were there to prop Lady Wuvren up. Someone offered her a handkerchief, a flask of water. A sweet stamina potion. Someone else punched the [Earl].



——



Beauty and age. A [Lady] could enhance one and stave off the other. But those were Skills for women who feared loss, or coveted one value or another. What did you give the [Lady] who had both? Perhaps you gave her a Skill in the form of lineage, genetics that always threw true. Or a gift for money. The ability to manage her lands or charm others. Or, perhaps, you simply gave her—

Power. The [Lady] stood in the middle of her city, amid broken black roses. And the [Assassins] approaching her with weapons couldn’t get any closer. The [Lady] was furious. She stared at the black figures, and her eyes flashed, the orange pupils darting indignation and fury as her citizens looked on in shock.

“I am Pryde. And you sent four to claim my head? How dare you? How many did you send to Magnolia? Zanthia? Wuvren? Bethal?”

The [Assassins] stared up at her. They had leapt for her from the cover of a rolling wagon. But something had pinned them. It was so hard to move—one was reaching for a crossbow, but the wood was cracking, and his bones creaked. He was six feet away from her, but he couldn’t move. Lady Pryde stamped a foot.

“Four [Assassins]? Send a hundred! Send a thousand! Tell your Guildmaster that I want him to take this contract himself.”

She pointed at the silent attackers. The one with the crossbow finally raised it. Lady Pryde’s brows snapped together. She pointed.

“[Ego is Weight].”

The gravity crushing the man redoubled. The crossbow snapped in his hands. He lay flat on the ground, and Pryde stood over him. Never had anyone been so aptly named. Or perhaps the name had forged the woman. She beckoned imperiously.

“Come. If you can even touch me. I am Lady Pryde of House Ulta.”

They reached for her. But that was as far as they got. The citizens of Ulta’s city advanced with a roar of outrage. They descended on the four immobilized [Assassins]. And when the bodies had been dragged away, they surrounded their [Lady]. And she stood up and passed each of her subjects, touching a bloody brow or a hand.

A [Queen] of [Ladies]. Untouchable, undefeatable.



——



They were dying. To guards or the [Ladies] who blew perfume laced with magic, or deflected spells with magic fans. The black-clad [Assassins] fell like flies. And disbelief was written on their lips.

It should not be like this. They had known the dangers of this job. They had known it was suicide. But they had expected at least one group to succeed. And the riches of killing even a single [Lady] would have made the killers rich beyond their dreams, even divided a dozen ways. But they had failed.

It was to be expected. They were just recruits. The lowest rank of the Assassin’s Guild, whose shadowy number was in the thousands. Possibly even tens of thousands, if, as rumored, they had bases in southern Izril still. And to send a message, the Assassin’s Guild was willing to throw away nearly a hundred of their weakest.

For a message. It was a gesture that might reward the guild in dividends. But it was a bitter truth to the last group of [Assassins] crouched outside of Magnolia’s estate. This group wasn’t plotting an ambush. They weren’t even at that stage yet. And unlike their comrades, even the ones who had assaulted Bethal, these were the last to act.

Because they were afraid. No delusions of riches or fame could sway the twenty, ten in each group, who had been given the contract for Magnolia Reinhart. They knew they would never claim that bounty. But they had orders. So they waited as long as they could, whispering. Unprofessionally.

“She killed the [Mage] who went after her. And, what was it, two dozen of our own? They were the Guild’s best.”

“And she’s got her personal [Maid]. Ressa. She was trained by the Guild! I heard she was even an [Assassin].”

“A Reinhart. We’ll never make it inside. We won’t last ten paces.”

One of the [Assassins] in the garden group shook her head miserably.

“If we don’t try, we’re dead. All we have to do is try. Then we can run at the first sign of danger. We’ll level up just from the attempt.”

That was true. The [Assassins] looked at each other. Slowly, both groups moved. The first one on the west side readied their grappling hooks. They climbed over the walls, silently, alert for any helpful [Servant] they could accidentally be discovered by. And they did get over the wall. Not all of Magnolia’s private estate was warded.

The [Assassins] landed on lush, thick grass. Very high grass, in fact, that went up to the knees. They stared at the unkempt, unmowed lawn, and then at the huge, brambling walls of hedges they hadn’t spotted from the outside. The hedges that stretched up and up until they were over a dozen feet high in the smallest spots. The [Assassins] blinked at some huge, half-rotten toadstools growing out of the ground.

“This is a [Lady]’s garden?”

Someone muttered in disgust as he kicked at a tall stand of grass. The others looked around uneasily. Someone drew a blade.

They had gotten into Lady Magnolia’s estate. Her garden, more specifically. Or rather, the hedge maze part of the garden. Which was tended by her [Gardener]. And because they had chosen to enter through that spot, they were never seen again.

The second group that infiltrated the mansion didn’t choose the garden, which meant they survived for longer. There were ten of them. They were detected across the stretch to the mansion; a [Maid] spotted them while dusting. The Gnoll calmly shot one with a crossbow. The other nine ran for it.

Three made it into the mansion. The Steel Golems got three with blade and crushing blows. One was knocked out by the stables by a horse. Two more had been running along the wall when one of the magical creatures swimming across the front of the mansion had opened its mouth. The remaining three had seen a whale pop out of the stonework to swallow their screaming friends. The last three never looked back and ran inside, blades drawn.

Three people stood in the entrance hall to Magnolia’s mansion. A [Butler], polishing his sword with a handkerchief. A [Maid] who held a huge, enchanted mace. And a miserable [Assassin], armed with similar weapons as the ones the [Assassins] carried. The [Maid] glanced up as the three [Assassins] skidded to a stop.

“Only three? Sloppy. They’re definitely third-rates. The ones that attacked the mansion the first time were some of the Guild’s best. I have no doubt. These ones are expendable.”

“They’re trainees. Barely qualified for their first missions. Probably between Level 10 and Level 20 at most.”

The black-clad man looked up, sighing. The [Butler] glanced at him.

“Like you, you mean.”

Theofore the luckless [Assassin] nodded. Reynold stood straighter.

“Well, it should be a good warm up. Who wants all three?”

The [Assassins] drew back as Reynold drew his sword back. Sacra sighed and propped her mace on one shoulder. One of the [Assassins] pointed at Theofore.

“Theofore? We thought you were dead. The Guild’s put a bounty on you.”

“Life isn’t so kind.”

Theofore sighed. He drew a throwing dagger and flipped it. The [Assassins] tensed. Theofore looked at his companions.

“You know I’m better than all three of you. And these two could kill an entire training team without breaking a sweat. Surrender. You’ll live. But you won’t like it. Don’t, and you’ll die. Either way.”

He shrugged. The [Assassins] stared at him. They looked behind themselves and then weighed the odds. They tossed their blades to the carpet and held up their hands. Sacra glared.

“I just cleaned that carpet. Drop another blade on it and I’ll kill you. Blood comes out easier than poison.”



——



Five minutes later, Reynold poked his head into the sitting room and coughed once before delivering his message.

“All sorted, Lady Reinhart. We’ve, ah, recovered the weapons from the garden. Theofore is looking through them now. We’re turning the corpses over to Mister Nalthaliarstrelous. For…composting.”

Magnolia Reinhart looked up. She was reading [Messages] while sitting on her personal, pink couch. A cup of sugar with some added tea was sitting in front of her.

“Thank you, Reynold. Have Sacra see to the interrogation. You may have the rest of the day off. If I need a driver, I will make Ressa do it.”

“You’re too kind, Lady Reinhart.”

Magnolia smiled and tilted the tea cup to her lips. She frowned as she read the rest of the [Messages].

“So. The party accompanying Lady Zanthia, Wuvren, Feli, Sypaci, Allima—no word from Bethal, but we have to assume she was attacked too.”

Ressa nodded silently. Magnolia glanced at her.

“All failures. Do you think they underestimated us that badly, Ressa?”

“I think they wanted to see how good each [Lady]’s defenses were. And perhaps they were wary of sending their best in case they did fail. It could be the Circle of Thorns or whoever hired them was simply cheap. The Assassin’s Guild is expensive, even for the richest of [Merchants]. This must have cost tens of thousands of gold coins.”

Ressa replied drily. Magnolia nodded. She made a face.

“What is that idiotic Guildmaster thinking? Then again, knowing him…what a waste of bodies. But the Guild has members to spare. I suppose this is their message, then. Assassinations are open game. They aren’t under my control and so on and so forth.”

She set her cup down and stared at the pile of black roses on the table in front of her.

“And Izril is officially divided. There are now sides. How wonderful. We have dozens upon dozens of enemies publicly declaring against us, with more to come no doubt.”

Ressa nodded. She studied the list of names of those who’d sent the flowers to the [Ladies].

“No black flowers from any of the Five Families. Is that unusual?”

Magnolia glanced up.

“Tyrion knows better. And this wasn’t his idea. I’m rather surprised one of my family didn’t send a flower my way, though. As for the other families—they know what’s coming next. They’ll pick sides soon enough. But they aren’t idiots.”

Ressa nodded.

“Do you think the senders of the flowers organized the [Assassin] attacks?”

Magnolia sipped thoughtfully from her cup.

“It certainly puts us against them, doesn’t it? But no, that’s too convenient for our real enemies, Ressa.”

She tapped the flowers in front of her.

“These are from some of those who joined Tyrion’s army against the Goblin Lord. They’re expressing their contempt openly. Foolishly, one might say. The [Assassins] are different. The Circle of Thorns sent them, I have no doubt. Everyone else assumes I still have a contract with the Guild—or I did until today. Even if they had doubts, who would organize such a concerted attack with the danger it might be traced back to them? No.”

All that was true. Ressa nodded and hesitated.

“Even so, you could make an example—”

“No.”

“What about the Circle of Thorns? At least one of the nobility in Tyrion’s camp must have been part of the circle. How else would they have coordinated the attacks with the insult?”

Magnolia rolled her eyes.

“I’m sure there is someone. At least one of the nobility who rode with Tyrion Veltras is in the Circle of Thorns. Oh, that narrows it down so much.”

The [Maid] glared.

“You’ve been attacked. And insulted. You can’t let this slide, Magnolia.”

Magnolia picked up a flower and studied it. She sniffed it and tossed it down with a grimace.

“I don’t intend to. But I told you, Ressa. I’m trying to move away from fear. Surely I can be formidable and merciful. Or is twenty missing [Assassins] a light touch?”

Ressa didn’t reply to that. She just folded her arms.

“How are you going to reply, then? A stiffly worded letter? A few roses in kind?”

Magnolia smiled brightly.

“Oh, no. I’ll simply hit their coffers instead.”

So saying, she stood up. Magnolia held out one hand, and Ressa felt the air in the room go still. She backed up a step. Magnolia glanced around. She took a breath, and then spoke in a level and ringing tone.

“I, Magnolia Reinhart, declare a [Trade War].”

She brought her hand down and slapped the coffee table lightly. The roses jumped, and the table and floor shook for a second. Ressa winced as the reverberations ran through the mansion. The door slammed open, and Sacra appeared with a mace in hand.

“Lady Reinhart, what was—”

“Just a Skill, Sacra. Close the door, would you?”

Magnolia waved a hand tiredly. Sacra did, hesitating. The [Lady] Reinhart looked at Ressa. She raised an eyebrow.

“Good enough for you?”

Ressa blinked at her.

“It’s a start.”

Magnolia rolled her eyes and shook her head.

“Ressa, send out [Messages] to Invrisil’s Merchant’s Guild and to our other affiliates. The clever ones shouldn’t need to be warned.”

Ressa nodded. In minutes she had [Messages] flying out to all of Magnolia’s affiliates. And that was all Magnolia said on the matter. But the shaking, trembling quake that she’d struck the table with still reverberated as it ran down through the mansion, into the bedrock and ground. And it grew and grew, a tremor. A quake of vibrations. And it grew and grew, until the entire land around Invrisil—



——



Shook.

It was an earthquake! On his way to Invrisil’s market, the [Farmer] named Tanel clutched at his wagon as his horses reared. The tremor was minor, but sudden. It shook the ground under him and sent his covered wagon’s contents spilling as a rope suddenly snapped. Tanel cursed and swept out of his seat, rushing to pick up the fallen goods.

He was a [Berry Farmer], a good one too. His Skills had given him an early harvest, which he was contracted to sell to Invrisil’s markets at a mint. This early, berries would be in high demand, and Tanel was looking forwards to making a profit. He’d just crossed into Invrisil’s territory from Averin lands.

It was normally an uneventful trip. Invrisil was very safe, what with it being the City of Adventurers, and the Averin lands, if less prosperous, benefitted from their proximity to one of Izril’s main cities. Up until recently, Tanel had considered it a boon for his farm. These last few days however, he’d heard that tensions were on the rise between Averin’s house and Magnolia Reinhart. Over some big to do down around Liscor and the Goblin Lord, who was now dead.

It was nothing to do with Tanel. He just wanted to make money and retire young. And Invrisil loved his berries. He was hurrying to pick up the precious cargo, wondering how it had spilled with such a minor shake when he noticed something awful.

“Bruised?”

Horrified, Tanel looked at the squished and bleeding berries. If he hadn’t known better, he would have sworn this was the worst of his crop! He looked into the wagon and stared.

“They’re all—but I could have sworn—”

His berries were all bruised! Some were damaged from the trip, and some even had mold on them. How was that possible? Tanel always, always checked his fruits before going to market. Had the trip somehow turned them all bad at once? The [Farmer] stumbled back, his visions of a cushy return to his farm on the border of Averin crushed.

“No, no, no—how is this happening?”

Then he remembered the quake. And he had a terrible premonition, a sense in the back of his head. He shouldn’t have come to Invrisil. Tanel couldn’t say why. But he was certain. Invrisil was a bad place to be. Bad to sell his goods. He’d have to find another market for his second harvest. It would mean no gold and pittance in his pockets, but it was just no…good here.

Bitterly, Tanel reflected that meant less money for the tax collectors when they came by too. It was a bittersweet feeling at best. Mostly bitter.



——



“Dead gods, that was a bit of a quake.”

Two [Traders] sitting in one of Invrisil’s open-air restaurants looked around shakily. One of them, a local stock merchant in Invrisil who sold a number of wares, grabbed at a bag of gold on the table sheepishly. Then he let go and laughed. The [Trader] sitting across from him, a man who handled the Indivu Estates’ purchasing, laughed a bit contemptuously.

“No need to panic. The gold won’t fly away. And we do have a deal, don’t we?”

They were about to close a profitable deal where Invrisil would sell some much-needed stocks of alchemical ingredients to Indivu for their [Alchemists]. The Invrisil [Trader] felt like he was getting the raw end of the deal, but he needed to shift the ingredients now before they expired, and the Indivu [Trader] had given him little bargaining room. Reluctantly, he nodded.

“For the gold on the table, I can do it.”

“Then we have a deal. We’ll shake and sign.”

Impatiently and rudely, the Indivu representative held out a hand. The [Trader] gritted his teeth as he reached out. At that moment, he heard a shout.

“Street Runner, coming through! Coming—whoops!”

A running girl struck the table the two men were sitting at. Her hip accidentally struck the bag, and something—a loose seam, a cut in the bag—burst. Both [Traders] watched, as, in classic fashion, the bag of gold exploded, raining gold down the street.

Invrisil’s pedestrians might be richer than, say, Celum or Liscor’s people, but no one turned down free gold. Hands were snatching the pieces even as they fell, and people grabbed the money and ran. The Street Runner fled, and the Indivu [Trader] clutched at his head.

“Stop! Call the City Watch! [Thief]!”

He turned desperately to the Invrisil [Trader]. But the man was already backing away.

“Terribly sorry, but it appears the gold is no longer on the table, as it were. So—”

He fled. The Indivu [Trader] tried to follow him. He slipped on a gold coin.



——



Was it luck or design? Existing faults being exploited, or new ones being created? The Merchant’s Guild of Invrisil didn’t know, and they frankly didn’t care. Magnolia’s [Message] hit their guild like a [Fireball]. Within minutes, [Merchants] were apologizing to customers waiting who represented various estates.

“I’m terribly sorry, sir. But your line of credit is no longer good in Invrisil.”

A [Merchant] wiped at her forehead as she tried to explain to a very upset young nobleman why he couldn’t borrow any money. Another, a journeyman [Trader], was frantically erasing prices on the board, much to the confusion of a young [Secretary] who’d come to arrange transport and goods.

“The price of barley is four coppers higher per pound. For anyone buying and selling in Vite lands. And a number of other estates. I’m sorry, Miss. I have a list. It just came in from the Merchant’s Guild.”

She tried to protest, but it was no good. And indeed, the heads of the Merchant’s Guild realized the very same thing when they called on Magnolia Reinhart an hour later. The [Lady] met them at her gates, just in time for them to see a [Butler] having some of the staff drag a few dead bodies towards the garden. The [Merchants] stared and swallowed their objections fast. Magnolia Reinhart’s face was the picture of pleasantness.

“So good of you all to come here! Despite my explicit [Message] that already stated what was going on. Let me say it twice, then, ladies and gentlemen. You may sell to my competitors. At one and a quarter times the rate you will charge anyone else. Anything less, and you will fall foul of my Skill. And believe me, even the best [Merchant] will find themselves mildly inconvenienced. Anyone of a lower level, say, Level 30 or less, will be significantly distressed.”

“A [Trade War], then, Lady Reinhart?”

One of the senior [Merchants] stared at her, mildly appalled. Magnolia nodded.

“The very same. Products entering my lands will not do well. It is, of course, an inconvenience. But I think the Merchant’s Guild can help Invrisil weather the slight pinch for a good time. My competitors? Less so.”

The [Merchants] considered that. Invrisil didn’t lack for suppliers, although it might raise rates. On the other hand, anyone who wanted to import goods through the trading hub of a city was now facing massively increased prices and a string of bad luck. They hesitated.

“How long will this, ah, situation last, Lady Reinhart?”

The [Lady] twirled a black rose between her fingertips. The [Merchants], who were already in the know, shuddered.

“Oh, as long as it takes, good gentlefolk. As long as it takes. I may accept an apology. In time. Until then, please let me excuse myself. I hate to be abrupt, but I am terribly busy as you must now know. And I think my [Gardener] wants to turn some skulls into pot holders. Good day to you!”

Ressa slammed the gate in front of the [Merchants]. She watched them go, then followed Magnolia as the [Lady] swept back towards the mansion. Magnolia was already thinking aloud.

“We’ll need to watch the borders, obviously. There may be raids. Of a certainty, I think we’ll see unpleasantness. [Knights] dueling. Young [Lords] deciding to get their own back. But I haven’t declared a [Trade War] for nearly ten years. I imagine a number of my peers are having a very unpleasant shock right now. They really shouldn’t underestimate my level.”

“Is that the start or end of it?”

Ressa glanced at Magnolia. She was tempted to ask about sending Sacra on a mission, or performing the more traditional Reinhart maneuvers in the dark. If not assassination, then certainly espionage. But Magnolia shook her head.

“Money is enough, Ressa. Money, and perhaps a few judicious secrets leaked. Time to send some rather inappropriate gossip. All truthful, of course. I’ll need my little black book, a quill, some good stationery—”

Ressa smiled thinly. That was closer to the Magnolia she knew.

“Planning on starting some duels of honor?”

“I don’t think enraged brides-to-be duel their prospective husbands, Ressa. They tend to just go for the kill. I’ll send off a few letters to begin with. Oh, and get me some good Runners, Ressa. Couriers, preferably, but trustworthy City Runners in Invrisil will do for some of these notes.”

“We have a list.”

Ressa was already pulling a few names from memory. She paused as she thought of one name in particular that had come up of late. But she didn’t say it out loud. Instead, she looked at Magnolia. The [Lady] sighed. Tired, but fierce.

“[Assassins] and [Runners]. Intrigue in Izril. It’s a fine time to be a Runner, I suppose.”

“You mean, dangerous.”

Magnolia turned back with a smile.

“It’s one and the same, Ressa. Risk equals reward. And I believe, yes, I believe it’s never been better to be a Runner. After all, we are at odds, Ressa. The noble Humans of Izril are squabbling again.”

Her face fell.

“Again.”

Ressa shook her head.

“Better than being at war with the Drakes?”

She saw her friend pause. Magnolia turned her head, searching the sky, as if for a clue. At last, she turned back to Ressa and shrugged.

“I think so. But we’ll have to wait and see. Won’t we?”





6.28


The grass was lush and green. The perfect height, which was to say, short. Not like the tall, whippy, adult grass that was what real grass actually looked like. This grass was fresh. It had the kind of green quality and density that you only saw on lawns religiously tended to by their owners. It was the kind of grass that invited the viewer to walk outside barefoot, so you could wriggle your toes in it.

There was the grass. It was growing on a hilltop. And on that hilltop sat an inn. The doors flew open. A young woman raced out onto the grass. She raised her arms and then cartwheeled across the grass.

“It’s spring! Proper spring!”

A white shape bounded out the door after her. Erin Solstice laughed as Mrsha raced onto the grass and did a flying belly flop. Erin completed her cartwheel and caught herself, a bit dizzy.

“I did it! Hey Mrsha, did you see that?”

The Gnoll nodded rapidly. She raced around Erin on all fours, then got onto two legs. She raised her arms, waving them, clearly encouraging Erin to do it again. The [Innkeeper] laughed.

“Like this, Mrsha! See? Here I go!”

She took three steps, raised her arms, and then lunged. Her body twisted down, her hands struck the ground, and to Mrsha’s amazement, Erin cartwheeled. The Gnoll’s tiny mouth popped open as Erin cartwheeled across the grass.

“Whoop—whoop! I nearly went over the edge, there! Careful!”

Erin caught herself a second time, this time from going over the edge of the hill. It would be a somewhat steep roll down the hill, and the lovely grass covering the top hadn’t managed to infest the slopes. Brown mud stared at her as she hopped back towards the inn. She spotted a figure standing in the doorway.

“Cartwheels! Want to try, Lyonette?”

The [Princess] stared at Erin, perplexed.

“I’ve never done something like that in my life. How on earth did you do that? You don’t have the [Tumbler] class, right?”

Erin hesitated.

“Do I need to? It’s just a cartwheel. Most guys can’t do it, but I learned it in gym class.”

“Oh. Another of your Earth things. You can really just do that?”

Erin propped her hands on her hips as she smiled at the younger girl.

“I bet you can do it. Come on. It’s simple. Watch. All you have to do is put your arms up, lunge, and then twist—”

She did a slower cartwheel to show Lyonette and Mrsha. It was too slow, so Erin fell down halfway through. Mrsha leapt on her, tail wagging, and Erin laughed.

“Mrsha! You’re getting heavier! Off! Lyonette, you try.”

“You’re sure you can do that?”

“You don’t need a class or a Skill for everything, Lyonette. And this is easy-peasy. Come on.”

The [Princess] looked dubious. But then she shrugged. She raised her arms.

“Okay. Like this?”

She copied Erin’s pose. Erin nodded. Lyonette took a deep breath.

“Alright. Then—”

She took five steps back, and then came out at a run. Erin opened her mouth to tell Lyonette she was going too fast, when the [Princess] did a perfect triple-cartwheel past her and Mrsha. The Gnoll and young woman gaped. Lyonette caught herself at the edge of the hill, raised her arms, and smiled.

“Done!”

She turned, and Mrsha crossed her arms, shaking her head. Erin raised her voice.

“Cheater! You used your [Flawless Attempt] Skill!”

Lyonette laughed as Mrsha indignantly signed ‘not good’ to her. Lyonette held up her hands, palm out, and bowed her head. ‘I’m sorry’. Then she turned to Erin.

“Well, I wanted to do it right! And now that I did it right, I can do it again. See?”

So saying, she took a step, and did a nearly perfect cartwheel again. Erin put her hands on her hips, miffed.

“Can’t you fall down once or twice? That’s unfair!”

Lyonette sniffed, raising her brows in an imitation of Pisces.

“What, and descend to the level of you peasants? Besides, it’s convenient. I can learn how to do something right once and never have to worry about it again. Like my poached eggs. Or learning how to flip pancakes. Or riposting in my sword lessons from Yvlon and Pisces.”

“Yeah, but—but I can’t do that.”

Erin sighed mournfully. She glanced at Lyonette as the girl raised her arms to encourage Mrsha. The Gnoll child was wobbling a bit on her two feet, although she could walk when she needed to without issue.

“I’ll trade you my, uh…[Alcohol Immunity] Skill for your [Flawless Attempt].”

“No thanks.”

“I’ll throw in [Lesser Endurance]? And [Quick Recovery]?”

“You have your rare Skills, I have mine. If you could trade, I’d take your [Wondrous Fare] Skill for it and nothing less.”

“Ooh…”

Lyonette turned to smile at Erin. Then both watched as Mrsha raised her arms, frowning hard. The Gnoll cub tried to imitate Erin, but only managed a slow somersault. Erin laughed.

“You nearly did it! Come on. Let me help you.”

Like her gym instructor had once done, Erin helped lift Mrsha’s legs as the Gnoll went through the cartwheel.

“Look? See? It’s not hard at all.”

Erin said that, but she noticed how uneasy Mrsha looked when she was upside down. Lyonette, watching, flicked some hair out of her face.

“You say this is from your world, Erin. Do people do that all the time?”

“Well, only the athletic ones. I haven’t done it in ages, but I saw the grass and…”

Erin waved a hand. Lyonette nodded. Mrsha kicked her legs to make sure Erin was holding them tight.

“Don’t worry, Mrsha. Erin won’t let go. It’s not dangerous, see?”

“Yeah! The worst you could do is cartwheel and hit your head or something. Or roll down the hill.”

A finger poked Erin in the back, hard. Mrsha looked up anxiously.

“Ignore Erin. And on that note, I’ve never seen anyone I knew personally do cartwheels, Erin. Maybe they did in the towns or villages, but only [Tumblers] and other entertainers would do that. I’ve never seen a [Knight] or [Warrior] pull that off. I wonder if it’s a defensive move?”

“I…don’t think so?”

Erin tried to imagine Ceria or Yvlon cartwheeling out of the way of an attack. She shrugged.

“It’s just for fun. What’re you worried about, Mrsha? I’ve got you!”

“I don’t think Gnolls do acrobatics. I could see Garuda doing this, or String People. But some species aren’t built for it. Imagine a Drake trying this? With the tail? Or a Dullahan.”

Erin laughed.

“Yeah! I should show Maughin! Or Pelt! Maybe that would make him laugh.”

So saying, she patted her belt and felt a leather sheath against her fingers. Erin adjusted her personal kitchen knife and caught Mrsha as the Gnoll warily did a handstand and promptly fell forwards.

“Easy! It’s not hard, Mrsha. Although maybe a handstand would be simpler. But I bet you can do it. Want to try one on your own?”

Mrsha shook her head vigorously. But after four more slow cartwheels, she did give it a try. Erin and Lyonette applauded wildly, and Mrsha raced around, looking delighted. Lyonette bent down, and Mrsha hopped into her arms.

“You have to learn to do that so you can show Krshia. She’ll be very impressed. Right, Erin?”

“Exactly! And I’ll show Maughin! Hey Mrsha, did you know you can do multiple cartwheels? Well, Lyonette spoiled that. But watch me!”

Erin took a breath and inhaled the fresh, cool air with delight. She stared up at the blue sky, the bright sun, and beamed.

“It’s springtime! Here I go!”

Mrsha and Lyonette sat down on the grass and watched as Erin began cartwheeling across the small hilltop. Aside from the inn, the hill had room for a few outhouses, a sign, and little else.

The inn was still partly destroyed from the Goblin Lord’s attack on Liscor. The third floor and tower were gone. But the second floor and ground floor had been all fixed up. It was a bit ramshackle, but if you focused only on the bottom, it was quite nice. And Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], laughed in the spring air outside of her inn.

“Whee! Whoo-hoo! Yeah! Watch me! Hold on. I’m getting sick.”

She paused to steady herself. Her stomach wasn’t pleased. Erin put a hand on one of the walls of her inn.

“Whoof. Is this what getting old’s like?”

“I wouldn’t know.”

Lyonette grinned as Erin turned to glare at the eighteen-year-old girl and Mrsha, who was six. Erin shook a fist.

“Just you wait. You’ll be twenty before you know it! Or twenty-one. My birthday’s coming up, and it’s getting close to summer!”

“We’ll throw you a party. And Mrsha will cut up your cake so it’s nice and easy to swallow. She’ll even help you with the icing, right, Mrsha?”

Lyonette tickled Mrsha. The Gnoll wriggled and yelped silently. She squirmed out of Lyonette’s grip and raced away. Erin laughed.

“Let’s do a flip next! Hey, I bet I can—no, wait. I can’t. But Lyonette can do one with her fancy Skill!”

“You’ll have to wait four hours until that. Mrsha, you can run about, but remember, you can’t leave the hill! It’s dangerous, and you’ll get mud all over your paws and fur!”

The Gnoll paused as she scampered towards the edge of the hill facing Liscor. She looked back and put a paw over the edge, staring at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned.

“Mrsha. Don’t you dare.”

Mrsha weighed the consequences of disobedience and grudgingly drew her paw back. Erin smiled as she crept over. She leapt and snagged Mrsha. The Gnoll thrashed wildly in delight.

“Gotcha! Let’s play tag, Mrsha!”

A big smile came over Mrsha’s face. She nodded rapidly. Lyonette sighed.

“I have to manage the inn. You two have fun. But please don’t get all muddy!”

“Yes, Mom!”

Erin raced after Mrsha, laughing. Then she stopped. She frowned and looked up suddenly.

“Mom?”

Mrsha’s slowed. She turned around. Lyonette bit the inside of her cheek. But her gaze was fixed on both Erin and Mrsha. Because Erin’s face had suddenly gone blank. Both the Gnoll and the young woman hesitated. Erin Solstice stared up at the sky. For a moment, Lyonette saw Erin’s expression cloud. Then she shook her head, and the smile returned.

“Whatever. Hey, this isn’t large enough to play tag in, and we don’t have enough people! Liscor’s all mud and rain, but at least we’ve got grass, right Mrsha? Lots of it! But I bet Celum has a lot more.”

She looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded and smiled, and her tail wagged a bit. Lyonette sighed in relief. She walked back towards the inn as Erin decided to give Mrsha a piggyback ride instead. She paused at the open door to the inn to look around.

Springtime for Liscor. It was actually a disgusting sight. The hill that The Wandering Inn stood on was indeed lush, whereas the grass and other plants had yet to reclaim the mostly muddy Floodplains around Liscor. No matter where Lyonette looked, she only saw brown mud and dirt, with sparse patches of color where the plants were regrowing. But the valleys were still full of thickening mud. And aside from Liscor’s drab walls, the mountains were the only distinct contrast in the background.

And yet, the area around the hill was verdant, and the culprit responsible for that was sitting next to Erin, tail innocently wagging as she panted excitedly. Erin picked Mrsha up and twirled her, laughing.

“Who’s the best little [Mage] ever? You are! Yes, you are! Did Moore teach you how to do this?”

Mrsha shook her head and reached for her little wand strapped to her side. She waved it excitedly, and Erin leaned back before she got an eye poked out.

“All by yourself? Well, don’t work too hard. But you did very good! Maybe I should give my [Gardener] a raise?”

She laughed as the Gnoll’s ears perked up. Lyonette watched as Erin handed Mrsha a copper coin, and Mrsha, as serious as any Gnoll with money, spirited it away in the tiny pouch she now carried around her neck.

So there sat Erin Solstice, playing with Mrsha. Weeks had passed since the days when she hid in her rooms. And even if the sun was occasionally lost for the clouds and rain, those days had passed. The eternal rain around Liscor had ended. Things were looking up.

Better and better. Lyonette walked back into the inn. And it was Lyonette who straightened her apron and checked for grass stains. Her red hair was tied back with a handkerchief, and it was a familiar eye that Lyonette ran over the guests in her inn. Because it was her inn.

For now. Erin was on break. She still cooked and helped with some tasks, but she often went into Pallass. Or just walked around Celum, or played with Mrsha. She needed it. And Lyonette needed this.

“Not too busy. Drassi, can you make a run into Liscor? Erin’s thinking of trying to make more egg drop soup. And she uses a lot of eggs. I think she’s being too literal.”

“Can do, Lyonette!”

A Drake happily saluted and abandoned her table-cleaning duty. Lyonette nodded to the [Barmaid], then raised a finger.

“You have one hour.”

“Aw. Okay, fine. I’ll be back!”

Drassi pouted, but she and Lyonette knew that an hour was more than enough. And given the chance, the [Gossip] would have happily spent three hours chatting with everyone she met in the market and on the way back. She headed towards the magic door. Lyonette turned her attention past her.

“I’m telling you, Pisces. It may not be ‘economical’, but these guarding contracts are worth good money. We can do a few and come away with gold. What’s your issue?”

She saw a group of adventurers sitting at one of her tables. Pisces, Yvlon, Ceria, and Ksmvr were all sitting together, arguing. They too were a fixture of the inn. Pisces raised one finger as he sat back, nursing a cup of water.

“They may be worth more money as a whole package, but as I explained twice, Ceria, the pay-per-hour is far, far less reasonable than we would earn hunting monsters. Moreover, we do not level any of our classes when we guard our clients. In most cases. It’s more efficient to hunt down monsters rather than waste time on fruitless idle work.”

“You just don’t like standing around. You could read while we did it, you know. We don’t all have to be on guard duty all the time. It’s good pay.”

“I do not mingle well with most of our esteemed clientele.”

Yvlon sighed.

“That’s because you sneer at them, Pisces. Look, until we get better requests by going north or getting that door to Invrisil open, we can’t do monster hunting all the time. We’re wiping out the local jobs. We’ll have to go to Ocre or Wales soon.”

“Yes. Our efficiency is a cause for great distress in the other teams. Another sign of dominance.”

That came from Ksmvr. Lyonette snorted gently, and Ceria and Pisces laughed. Yvlon sighed.

“Ceria, don’t encourage Ksmvr. I told you, Ksmvr, it’s not polite to say that to the other adventurers in the guild.”

“Keep doing it, Ksmvr.”

The Antinium’s head swung back and forth between Yvlon and Pisces. He wavered, then turned to Yvlon.

“I will not do so in the future, Yvlon.”

“Traitor. Is it so wrong to mock the teams, which, might I remind you, conspired to jail all of us and then attempted to usurp our mission? We may have struck a nonaggression pact, but I personally believe—”

“Shut up, Pisces.”

The adventurers laughed again. They sat back easily, and Lyonette saw Ishkr pass them with a tray of drinks. He was heading towards the back of the inn. And when she turned her attention and ears there, another conversation became audible. Or rather, a soliloquy.

“Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my paw? Come, let me clutch thee. I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.”

On the stage, watched by a few scattered tables of early morning guests, was a Gnoll. He stood on stage, grasping at a dagger before him. Macbeth, staring at a very real dagger being held up on a string, paused in his delivery of the soliloquy and coughed. An impatient voice yelled from behind the curtain.

“Cut! What’s wrong this time, Yimur?”

The Gnoll looked apologetic as the other [Actors] appeared. Two of the audience members sitting at the tables booed; the Players of Celum took no notice. The ten or so veteran Human actors and new aspiring cast of Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans crowded around the lead Gnoll.

“Sorry. It’s just that…hrr, it’s these lines, Director Temile. I do not know if this is all too fitting for a Gnollish Macbeth. You see, I agree with the changing of ‘hand’ to ‘paw’, but this dagger? It makes no sense, yes?”

He scratched at one red-brown, furry ear as he spoke to Temile, the lead direct and [Actor] now that the main cast had left Celum for the north. The man scrubbed a hand through his hair impatiently.

“It makes no sense. Why not? It’s a dagger. Macbeth is staring at it. What’s there to wonder about?”

Yimur spread his paws out helplessly.

“If it is a dagger, why does Macbeth have a hard time seeing it? Even if it is pitch-black, he should be able to see it if he can make it out. Gnolls have very good eyesight. I understand that a Human might have an issue, but if I see a dagger, I know it’s a dagger, yes?”

He looked around. The other Gnolls nodded along with some of the Drakes. Temile groaned.

“It’s meant to be a metaphor. Look, Erin explained it to me once. This fellow, who you’re playing—”

“Macbeth.”

One of the Drakes added in helpfully. Temile turned to glare.

“Yes, Macbeth. Whose part you were selected to play before all the others, by the way, Yimur. He’s staring at a dagger. In his mind. Alright? We’ll get rid of the prop. Or maybe we’ll say it’s an illusion spell. But he doesn’t know it’s a dagger, see? He’s wondering if he’s gone crazy.”

“Even so, if it were a Gnoll, he would know what he sees. Why does he have to wonder? I know that’s a dagger. And that’s a spoon. And that’s a cup. Why would I waste words wondering, even if my mind is playing tricks on me?”

“So would Drakes. We know daggers. We’re not all crazy like you Humans.”

The non-Human cast agreed. Temile clutched at his hair.

“It’s an illusion in the mind! Madness! He’s thinking to himself, alright? And if you want to be Macbeth, you’ll start imagining a dagger too! Take it from the top!”

Temile stomped back behind the curtain. Lyonette watched as Yimur the Gnoll disconsolately took his position again. The Gnoll stared at the air and gasped.

“Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my paw? Yes! Come, let me clutch thee. I have thee not, which surely indicates an illusion spell, and yet I see thee still.”

“Cut!”

Lyonette laughed. So did some of the audience. The Players of Celum weren’t ready to put on any big plays, not if the arguing cast was any indication. But they were practicing every day in the inn, day and night, and the casting call had attracted nearly a hundred applicants. And they did bring in some guests, who came just to watch the plays and the actors working out the bugs in their routine. When they finally started putting on proper plays, Lyonette expected some good business.

But the inn was still pulling in money. Not huge money, but enough. Lyonette had big plans. And as a breathless Erin came in with a tousle-haired Mrsha, Lyonette was pleased enough that she could just direct one of the Gnoll servers to bring Erin and the Gnoll some water rather than have to do it herself. Erin smiled as she came to a table, and Mrsha drank thirstily from her cup.

“That was fun! How’s the crew, Lyonette?”

“Dreadful as I understand it. You want to give them some pointers?”

Erin laughed as she watched Yimur do another take of Macbeth’s soliloquy.

“No thank you! I got enough questions from Jasi and Wesle’s lot. The Players are a lot more into plays than I ever was. They’d be right at home in a class discussing all that. I’m just lucky that I got a B- in class.”

“That’s one of your scores, right?”

Lyonette tried to remember Erin’s lessons about Earth. The young woman nodded.

“It’s, uh, below average. A tiny bit. Anyways, I remembered the plays thanks to my Skills. Someone else can interpret them. Whew! I’m beat. I think I’m going to do some work now. Enough grass.”

She plucked at some grass stuck to her tunic. Mrsha shook her fur, and Lyonette sighed. Someone would have to clean that up. She still helped clean. But the smile on both faces was eminently worth it. She cast a glance at Erin. The day had started well. And knowing the [Innkeeper]’s new routine…

“Are you going to Pallass today? I’d like you to look for some rarer ingredients in the market if you do.”

Erin hesitated. She frowned and glanced back towards the magic door. Ishkr trotted over and changed the dial holding the magic stones. He checked all the locations for waiting guests, shrugged since there was no one, and closed the door. Erin shook her head.

“Maybe not Pallass today. I’m gonna stop bugging Rufelt and Lasica every day. Plus, I want to make some stuff to take to them. I promised I’d show Lasica my cakes! So how about it, Mrsha? Want to help me make some cakes today? If you promise not to keep stealing from the bowl, I’ll let you lick the spoons.”

Mrsha looked up and nodded rapidly. Lyonette frowned.

“Mrsha’s been gaining a bit of weight, Erin. She needed it, but no extra slices of cake. Okay?”

Mrsha shot Lyonette a betrayed look. Erin smiled.

“I promise. And it’s great weather for it. I just need to maybe get more eggs and…”

Her head turned towards the bright windows, letting in sunshine. Erin frowned. She was suddenly struck by a thought she hadn’t had in months.

“Hey. You know, it is springtime.”

“You don’t say?”

Lyonette glanced at the windows and raised her eyebrows. Erin blinked at her.

“What I mean is, it’s been spring for a while. I hear some [Farmers] are even pulling in harvests. Everything’s growing, right?”

Mrsha rotated her paws in front of her chest, twitching her ears impatiently.

Go on, go on.

Erin absently nodded.

“Right. So…I wonder if we can harvest some blue fruits?”

Both Lyonette and Mrsha sat up. They stared at Erin. She looked at them.

“We couldn’t in winter. But it is spring. Right? They were the first things I ever ate here. And I bet the trees are still there.”

“Could be.”

Lyonette blinked. Blue fruits? She had no idea…no, wait, she did remember Erin moaning about not having any. Erin got to her feet. She looked at Mrsha.

“Want to go for a walk?”

The Gnoll grinned. Lyonette hesitated.

“Put your boots on first, Mrsha. And no running on all fours! And Erin, remember to take some emergency items.”

“Yes, Mom!”



——



There they were. Blue fruits, hanging from the pale grey trees. The bright, rounded shapes were unnaturally colorful in the muddy valley. Mrsha and Erin’s boots splashed in the bottom layer of congealing mud. Both Gnoll and young woman were slightly muddy; it had been a dirty trek. But it was worth it. Erin breathed out as she stared up at the blue fruit trees.

“Oh wow. So that’s why they’re impossible to knock down. They were under water!”

The valley of blue fruit trees had indeed been under water. When the rains had come, this entire area had been submerged, Erin was sure. Now, as the sun and air slowly dried the area, higher valleys like this were nearly dry. Still, Erin was fascinated that none of the blue fruit trees had collapsed. She was sure the mud and draining water might have shifted a lot of the landscape. Why hadn’t the trees been toppled? She walked around one, staring up at the tall branches.

“Must have some kind of…incredible root system. And the ability to photosynthesize under water? Can trees hold their breath? No—wait—do they need to breathe?”

Mrsha looked blankly up at Erin. The young woman stroked her chin.

“Well, I was bad at biology anyways. And look! They’ve got blue fruits! Well, hm—those are yellow.”

She pointed at some of the fruits higher up. Mrsha squinted and nodded. The smaller fruits on the limbs were yellow, wrinkled, not nearly as lush or round as the lower-hanging, earliest blue fruits.

“So the fruits aren’t ripe until they’re blue. And they’ve got those big poison seeds. Don’t bite any until we get to the inn, Mrsha. I’m serious. I think I got poisoned once, and I threw up. Pisces said they’re deadly, and he’s right sometimes.”

Mrsha nodded seriously. She eagerly waved the basket she’d carried. Erin laughed.

“Yes, yes! We can get some! Let’s see. I normally just kick the trees and wait for the fruits to drop. But ick. And that sometimes makes the cores break. Why don’t we do it like this? Mrsha, you get a ride on my shoulders. Can you reach them?”

The Gnoll nodded. After shucking her boots, she stood on Erin’s shoulders and began plucking fruits. Erin kept her steady, and the Gnoll filled the basket. Although, she had to stop every few seconds to glance down at Erin for reassurance that Erin was holding on tight. Mrsha really didn’t like heights or cartwheels or anything that altered her sense of gravity.

Erin wondered if that was a difference between her species and Mrsha’s ancestors. Humans evolved from apes, right? What did Gnolls evolve from? Hyenas? Erin bet there was a video of a monkey doing a cartwheel. Right? There had to be one.

The orchard was bigger than Erin remembered. Or rather, looking at it now and all the budding fruits hanging off the tall limbs, Erin was sure that it could provide the inn with enough fruits all year if the trees kept producing into the fall. Especially with her [Field of Preservation] Skill. The only thing was that Erin didn’t remember there being nearly so many fruits when she’d first found this place.

“We can make a lot of blue juice, Mrsha. Get those ones too! We’ll get a big basket, and Lyonette can help us get the rest later. Or we’ll borrow a bag of holding from Ceria.”

Erin trotted over to another tree. She stared up. The trees had a lot of fruit! So why hadn’t she noticed so many? Did they produce less in the fall? Or did the orchard have other eaters? She’d never seen one of the Dino Birds eating from it, and the Rock Crabs avoided the place like the plague. So how—

Mrsha was reaching for another blue fruit when she noticed Erin had stopped. She kicked gently, and then looked down. Erin was staring blankly up at her. The young woman’s voice was quiet.

“Oh. Rags’ tribe must have eaten these all the time as well.”

Mrsha’s ears drooped. Erin stared up at her, and her face scrunched up. But neither she nor Mrsha cried. Erin stared at the basket tucked under one arm. She lowered Mrsha. It was nearly full to the brim, anyways.

“It’s okay. Let’s go back, huh? And then you can have the first batch of blue fruit juice. I think we should water it down, though; it’s too sweet! But hey, we can make a carrot cake, okay?”

The [Innkeeper] smiled. After a moment, she didn’t need to force it. Mrsha nodded eagerly, and Erin carried her back to the boots, which were partially embedded in the mud. Erin looked at the orchard as Mrsha put her boots on.

This was Erin Solstice’s new world. With less evil Goblins, but one dear friend. Instead of walking alone, a little Gnoll held her hand. And her inn had patrons, guests she knew and loved and people who came to her inn because it was a place. Everything changed.

Except for Rock Crabs. One came over the hill, and Erin and Mrsha chased it away then legged it back to the inn. Rock Crabs sucked.



——



“I shouldn’t have let you go. Not without a guard.”

Lyonette was fretting when Erin and Mrsha told her the story. The Gnoll shook her head while she let Lyonette clean her fur with a bit of soapy water. Erin raised a hand.

“Hey. In my defense…I did have some potions and a Tripvine Bag. It’s just that blue fruit cores work best on those rock-jerks.”

“It’s still dangerous. At least neither of you were hurt. But you both have to take more care. At least bring more items! Or we can have Ishkr or Numbtongue go with you.”

“As what, bait?”

Lyonette recriminations were cut short by Ishkr emerging from the kitchen. The Gnoll had the basket they’d brought back and some blue paws. He placed the basket on the table, and Erin saw it was filled with sticky blue fruit cores, all unbroken.

“Good work, Ishkr! That was quick!”

“No problem, Miss Erin. I’m going to get some water and wash my paws. Where do you want the basket, Lyonette?”

“By the window, Ishkr. They can dry out, and then we’ll keep them to chase the Rock Crabs off. No, Apista! Leave Ishkr alone. And don’t you dare break those cores! Ishkr, sorry, but can you wash them in the stream first?”

Lyonette chased Apista away. Ishkr eyed the Ashfire Bee and nodded.

“Watch out for those big fish!”

Erin called at the Gnoll’s back. Then she turned to Lyonette.

“I love employees.”

“They are useful. I’ll pulp the rest of the fruits myself. It really is as sweet as you claimed! I thought you had to be exaggerating. And the colors!”

The [Princess] smiled widely with delight. She wanted to rub her hands together, but they were all muddy, and Mrsha was squirming. Erin nodded. She had a cup herself. She sipped from it.

“It’s so sugary! Just as good as anything back home. Totally worth nearly getting eaten by a Rock Crab for.”

Lyonette nodded.

“We can sell your blue fruit drinks for a big profit, I think. Especially since no one else in Liscor seems willing to harvest blue fruits.”

Pisces, sitting close to them, leaned over.

“Because they’re a deadly poison. The amount of toxins in one fruit core could kill you quite, quite dead even with a healing potion! I’ve told Erin this time and time again. The fact that none of us have perished yet is a statistical anomaly, not a cause for complacency!”

He stared at the three women. Mrsha rubbed her nose, Erin rolled her eyes, and Lyonette took Pisces’ words to heart. Pisces stared at them, then sat back up right and raised his empty cup.

“Another blue fruit beverage, if you would be so kind. I will admit that the sacchariferous nature of the drink makes it quite refreshing.”

“Me too. I love this stuff. Tree rot, I’d forgotten how good it was!”

Ceria sighed as she sipped from her cup. Yvlon looked mildly appalled as she watched both get big refills from one of the Drake [Servers].

“I’d forgotten how sweet this is. It’s okay for me. No more, thank you. Do you have any water?”

She pushed her cup back. Ksmvr gently vibrated in his seat as he reached for the pitcher.

“I believe I am experiencing a sugar overload. I will have another, thank you.”

Lyonette gently motioned, and the Drake [Server] drew back before Ksmvr could help himself. She turned to Erin.

“Do you have a price set? Or can I choose one?”

Erin shook her head.

“I dunno. You charge what you want for it, Lyonette. And we should start putting out those Acid Fly traps I told you about. Remember? No, wait. You don’t. You came after the Acid Flies!”

The [Princess] frowned.

“I’ve seen those green things buzzing around with all the dead fish and mud. That’s money too?”

“It is. I’ll tell you all about them! And my traps! I sold this horrible face-eating acid stuff for a lot of money to adventurers!”

Lyonette’s eyes lit up. The idea of selling acid in jars sounded dangerous, and the concept of farming flies was gross. But she could get behind the idea of money. The idea of Acid Flies filled her with avarice, rather than disgust. Okay, and a bit of disgust. She snapped her fingers together, thinking of a good spot for the traps. Not too close to the inn; Mrsha might get hurt.

“I’ll take care of it. And—Pisces, it’s six copper coins per cup! Got it?”

She looked at Pisces. He yelped.

“Six copper—that is sheer robbery, Miss Lyonette! Sheer, pure theft of—”

Ceria slapped the [Necromancer] on the shoulder.

“Pisces, you’re rich now. You can afford the drinks. Remember?”

“Oh. In that case, I’ll take a sealed container of the drink, if you would. And some snacks for my room.”

Lyonette rolled her eyes. She looked back at Erin, doing some quick calculations.

“Six for now. If we sell just thirty-four cups or a few pitchers, we’re up an entire gold coin, Erin.”

“Ooh. That’s a lot more than I charged. I think. Yeah, I used to charge two copper coins. Wow.”

Erin shook her head. Lyonette bit her lip.

“No wonder you never made money, Erin. You need to be competitive.”

The young woman paused. She screwed up her face and then gave it a resigned shake.

“But what if they complain? Or it’s too expensive? I’d feel awful. I’m no good at being mean.”

“Well, I can be mean. Peon.”

Lyonette smiled, and Erin laughed. The [Princess] glanced down at Mrsha. The Gnoll was dozing in her arms.

“You need a nap, Mrsha. Too much excitement already.”

She lifted the sleepy Gnoll up and looked at Erin.

“The money will be very useful. I’m getting the Antinium to do a lot of construction work. First, they’ll be expanding the hill. But Pawn hasn’t been too active of late. I think he’s…thinking. I hope he visits today.”

Erin nodded.

“Yeah. I haven’t seen him. I hope he’s okay. It took me a long time, and he lost Yellow Splatters and a hundred other Soldiers. I could see if Klbkch will let me into the Hive after the cake…wait, expanding the hill?”

She blinked up at Lyonette. The [Princess] shifted Mrsha to one arm as she began to explain. Then she saw Erin’s eyes slide to the magic door, currently connected to Liscor. Forewarned, Lyonette was already turning when the door burst open and Olesm Swifttail burst into the inn.

“I’m quitting.”

The Drake’s blue scales flashed in the spring sunlight. He’d come through the magic door at a run. As it slammed against the wall, Mrsha woke up. She stared at Olesm as he hurled an armful of letters, half opened, onto the ground. Erin and Lyonette stared at Olesm’s heaving chest, the tears in his eyes, and the letters. The Horns and other guests turned to stare. The Players of Celum stopped rehearsing.

One of the Gnoll regulars in the inn raised his mug. He grinned cheerfully.

“At last! Blue fruit juice and drama! This is what I pay for!”



——



It had been nearly two weeks since the last huge dramatic incident in the inn. Plenty of time for peace and quiet, which it had to be said, was much needed. But some habits died hard it seemed. And Lyonette was savvy enough to know exactly what to do.

“Anyone want more blue fruit? I’m mixing it with some ales, spirits—I’ll try some blue fruit and gin mixer. Special discount. Only eight coppers to try it out! We also have some great pretzel snacks and some fries. Mayonnaise is free for a big platter. Hands? Anyone?”

As Ishkr circulated the tables with the staff, and Lyonette made a killing, Erin was with Olesm. She got him into a seat as the Drake sniffed and pounded the table, upset, but not actually crying that much. The Horns watched, munching their food, and Mrsha began sneaking fries from plates as Erin sat.

“Come on, sit down Olesm. What’s this all about?”

“Sorry. I didn’t mean to come here. I mean—”

The Drake [Strategist] sniffed, and Erin watched some snot disappear back up a nose hole. She made a face.

“Uh, napkin?”

“Here.”

One of the employees passed her one. Erin beamed. It was so nice to have hired help.

“Thanks, Fysi! Here, Olesm.”

She passed Olesm a napkin, and he blew his ‘nose’. Drakes had noses like lizards, which meant their nose-holes…Erin looked away as he wiped and sniffed again.

“I’m sorry. I really am. I know you don’t want to see me. But I just got this all by City Runner, and I—”

Erin stared at Olesm. She felt a mix of emotions. Anger, guilt, heartache—but none of them were overpowering. She glanced around. Numbtongue wasn’t in the common room. He was relaxing after having a bad encounter with some Rockmites the other day. And if he did come down? Well, Erin would deal with that.

She had a lot to say to Olesm, and he had done a lot. But Erin didn’t feel able to kick him out of her inn, distraught as he was. So she put her past with him aside for a second. Because they were friends. And Erin could know that, now. They were friends, still. So she patted him on the back.

“It’s okay. What’s wrong?”

“My newsletter. I—I knew it was a bad idea. But I thought—and I sent it, and I didn’t get an immediate response, because I didn’t check! They were all coming in letter form. From my big clients. I didn’t even go to the Mage’s Guild. I’ve been too afraid to. I’ve been reading the replies. But—oh, Ancestors. I’m quitting. I’m never writing another newsletter again.”

Olesm collapsed into his seat, hiccupping as the scales around his cheeks turned darker. Erin looked around.

“Your newsletter? You mean the chess magazine with the strategy? What’s wrong with it? I thought everyone loved it! Hey, a blue fruit juice over here? With gin?”

“Thank you.”

The [Strategist] snuffled as he accepted a cup. He took a big drink and blinked. He stared at the cup.

“You have blue fruit juice in again?”

“Yup. Just today. Are all those letters about your chess magazine?”

Erin stared at the letters Olesm had dropped. The Drake nodded.

“I—you know I normally do chess games and now those games of Go? Well, I had some of your old ones written up. But I thought I’d give some commentary. Just as a [Strategist]! You know? I do have the class. But the response—”

His claw indicated the pile. Ishkr dropped a bunch on the table, and Erin nodded to him. She reached for one of the opened ones and stared at a long letter full of angular script.

“May I, Olesm?”

“Go ahead.”

The Drake put his head down. Erin read the letter out slowly, ignoring the screeches as the inn’s patrons edged closer to read. Pisces unapologetically levitated a few letters towards him. Yvlon slapped his arm. Ceria grabbed a letter to read. Erin ignored both.

“‘Dear Strategist Swifttail. With respect, please eat your tail, then stand in front of a wagon so your death increases the intelligence of our species as a whole. Your commentary—I hesitate to call it an actual ‘analysis’—of Liscor’s battle with the Goblin Lord is ludicrous, ill-thought out, and frankly wrong. Moreover, it is purely unnecessary in what is meant to be an impartial commentary on chess.’”

Erin blinked. The opening of the letter looked like it had been written by someone very angry. And the contents suggested the same.

“‘Your notions about Goblins are the most ludicrous worm slime I’ve ever heard of in my life. I cannot fathom how you ever became [Strategist] for a city. Liscor is ill-served in your position, and I personally cannot bear to read your inane drivel any longer. I am unsubscribing from this newsletter. Please refrain from sending me any correspondence in the future. Strategist Beillfamt of Tullss.’ Whoa. What did you do to make him so angry?”

“Just keep reading.”

Olesm didn’t look up. Erin reached for another letter. She got two lines in, this time, and recoiled. There wasn’t any mention of what Olesm had done that was so egregious, but the sender was very explicit in what should be done to Olesm.

“Wow. He wants you to do what with a Creler? No, Mrsha, you can’t see.”

Erin hurriedly pushed Mrsha back. Meanwhile, at the Horns’ table, Pisces was cackling as he read through a letter. Yvlon’s lips twitched as she read from her letter.

“‘Dear Scales-for-brains’…oh my.”

Ceria read from another.

“‘To the idiot who thinks he knows strategy…’”

“This one is golden. ‘I will hunt you down and eat you alive. You have been warned!’ Ah, it’s too much! May I take some of these to read later?”

Pisces waved his letter, laughing even harder. Olesm buried his hands in his claws.

“Some of them couldn’t even be delivered. The Runner’s Guild said at least fourteen contained poison, feces, hex spells, and bugs!”

Ksmvr looked interested.

“Are there any bugs here?”

Erin shook her head. She read another letter, frowning. Then she looked up.

“You said Goblins weren’t monsters?”

The inn’s guests glanced at Olesm. He jumped and slowly met Erin’s eyes. She looked at the letter he’d received. This one wasn’t as rage-filled as the others.



To Olesm Swifttail of Liscor,

I wished to write you a letter in regards to your latest newsletter, of which I am subscribed. I am a passionate fan of the new game of chess, and sincerely interested in the strategic elements of the game, as well as this new game of ‘Go’, which has just reached my city. However, I was somewhat disturbed when I discovered that your latest edition of your newsletter contained a substantial analysis of the Siege of Liscor and commentary on the Goblin element that factored into the entire affair.

Without delving into the mechanics of your analysis of the battle itself (which I have to say was well done), I confess to being greatly disturbed by your suggestions that the Goblins were in fact victims of Human and Drake politics in the battle.

I was even more alarmed by your proposal for a hypothetical peace with the Goblins, wherein the Adventurer’s Guild’s bounties on Goblins would be rescinded and they would be considered people. Let alone forging trading and non-aggression pacts with smaller Goblin tribes! I consider this suggestion dangerous, not to mention irresponsible to suggest to your audience, and I believe many of your readers share the same opinion.

We have had Goblin pacts in the past. Historically, there are four instances of Goblins on Izril being awarded exemptions from monster status. In all but one case, the Goblin individuals or tribes eventually came into conflict with the sovereign powers and were destroyed. Most recently, Garen Redfang, a noted Gold-rank adventurer, slaughtered half his team before fleeing. I understand he perished at Liscor, which is all to the better. But it only proves the point: history shows Goblins are unlikely to be trusted.

Strategist Olesm, your arguments, while well-intentioned, fail when shone upon with the light of history. I have enclosed three books with this letter, which detail in part the efforts to make any kind of lasting pact with Goblins on Baleros and Chandrar respectively, as well as their use as auxiliaries in Rhir at one point. Note the Baleros book — Monstrous Warfare with additional commentary by none other than Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, whom I understand you hold in some regard. He underlines the same points I have just made.

Please educate yourself and present any further arguments with factual references to back up your assertions, or at least an acknowledgement of counterarguments. I do await further newsletters with impatient anticipation, and would request that you include a more basic guide to the strategy of this new ‘Go’ game that has come from Baleros. You appear to have a quite expert player you are sourcing from, but the nuances of your three examples are lost on me at the moment. Thank you for your time.

Yours truly,

[Strategist] and [Historian], Quelmi Seventails of Fissival



Erin stared at the letter. Olesm was hitting himself on the forehead. He snuffled.

“Yeah. I wrote it. I just thought—I know what you must think, Erin. And I thought you were right! Sort of. At least at the battle, I thought, if we had tried some other tactic, or if we’d had any framework for peace—I just suggested using Goblins as a deterrent for other monsters! I proposed hypotheticals in which they could be treated as something other than monsters. And I got…”

He waved a hand weakly at the letters. Erin picked up another. This one said that if Olesm ever made it to the Drake’s city, he would be beaten. The next one was from a Human. It was no less vitriolic. Erin shook her head. Ceria looked skeptically at Olesm.

“You actually wrote that Goblins aren’t monsters? And you didn’t expect people to jump down your throat and try to pull your stomach out?”

He glared at her with one red eye.

“I thought they’d understand my point, Ceria! These are supposed to be [Strategists]! Can’t they accept an idea? Instead, they hate me. It’s over. No one’s ever going to read my newsletter again. I’m going to be a pariah in every city in the world.”

He collapsed into his seat. Yvlon rolled her eyes.

“Don’t be dramatic. They’re not all bad. This one thinks you’re hilarious. Have a read.”

She flicked a letter at Olesm. He grabbed for it and read. His face only grew more morose.

“So I’m a joke as well as a traitor and an idiot. Wonderful.”

He slumped back over and drained his entire cup. Erin stared at the second letter. She shook her head.

“So they didn’t like it. Not all of them hated it. And—maybe your ideas did suck.”

This time everyone stared at her. Erin looked around.

“What? Maybe they did.”

“You’re the last person I’d ever expect to hear that from, Erin.”

Ceria gave Erin a very long look. The [Innkeeper] sighed.

“Olesm’s writing to [Strategists]. Maybe his proposals sucked. Strategically. You know? I know about magazines and being good at something. I used to make fun of idiots who wrote in the chess stuff I read. This letter says that Olesm didn’t think his arguments out or use facts. I get that. It doesn’t mean his ideas weren’t right. Just that he didn’t cite his sources and stuff. See?”

She passed the letter to Olesm. He began to read gloomily. But then his expression grew more intent. Erin looked around.

“Hey, everyone grab a letter. They’re not all bad, are they?”

“This one’s not.”

Lyonette passed one to Erin. She read it.

“‘Too much personal opinion. Not enough chess. I didn’t sign up for that, thanks.’ Lyonette, this isn’t nice.”

“It’s not super bad. And they say they want more chess, right?”

“Indeed. This one advises Olesm to ‘stick to what he knows’. Heh.”

Pisces chortled. Ksmvr waved another letter.

“This one seems the least hostile. Miss Erin. Come see.”

He handed Erin a letter. She read it. It wasn’t so much a letter as a pair of sentences.



I don’t agree about the Goblins. But keep up the good work.



There was no sender or address. There were, however, four gold coins stuck to the back of the letter. Erin nearly dropped the letter in shock. When she showed Olesm the letter, the Drake’s head snapped up, and his eyes went wide.

“What? That can’t be right. That’s a bribe to have the City Runner hit me over the head or something. Isn’t it?”

“It came with the letter, and you don’t have a bruise. I think it’s for you. And—look. Here’s another.”

Ishkr had another letter, which Erin read out loud.

“‘To Olesm Swifttail. I like it. None of my [Strategist] teachers liked your proposal. They’re probably sending you outraged [Messages] right now. But I wanted to say that we study strategy in Manus’ school, and all of my classmates think your strategy makes sense. Why do we have to practice the same strategy that Drakes a thousand years ago used? Ally with the Goblins? Try out new ideas? I wish you taught my school instead of these old flake-scales. Please keep writing about new and interesting things like this!’ Wow! Olesm!”

The Drake grabbed the letter and read it himself. Then he read the long one Erin had gotten. His eyes widened.

“They actually liked it? This is from students in Manus? But that’s the officer training school!”

“This one’s complimentary too. And this one.”

More letters began appearing in front of Olesm. Of course, for every good letter there were ten or sometimes twenty bad ones, but they started appearing the more Erin looked. People who hated Olesm’s guts, people who wanted him to get back to chess. Ambivalent, amused—it wasn’t all vile. Of course, the vile letters still hurt. Erin was so offended by one letter she had to burn it.

“That hurt my feelings! Wow! No one reads that, especially not you, Olesm. You’ll seriously cry.”

Pisces just laughed harder.

“A [Writer] or [Scribe] wrote that. They can make words hurt as much as stones. Ah, but this is good.”

He sipped from his drink, reading another letter. Erin glared at him.

“I’m glad you can enjoy Olesm’s pain.”

The [Necromancer] looked up sardonically.

“Why shouldn’t I? It’s not as if any of this matters.”

“It doesn’t?”

Everyone stared at him. Pisces shook his head. He scornfully tossed his letter into the fireplace.

“These are just words. Well, I suppose the letters that were trapped bear some danger. But what should Olesm care about anyone’s opinion? He is free to say what he chooses. And if he is correct, then the opinions of his peers are worth less than the barking of dogs. If he is wrong—well, he is still free to say what he wishes. But deriding an opinion is the mark of small-minded folk.”

His eyes glittered as he leaned over his table, looking at Olesm. Ceria followed Pisces silently with her head. After the [Necromancer]’s speech, the inn was silent. Olesm slowly looked up. He looked down at the letters in front of him. Then, abruptly, he rubbed at his eyes and stood.

“I’m…going to write an immediate newsletter. After I read those books. He said there were three other times when Goblins weren’t considered monsters in Liscor? And one that didn’t end in death? I’m going to find it. And do a tutorial. And—Erin, can you show me how that Shogi game worked?”

He looked at Erin. The young woman blinked.

“Of course. But you’re writing another newsletter?”

“I have to clarify my position. And put more chess into it. I’ll—I’ll attach some of the notes the Adventurer’s Guild gave me on the Raskghar too! That’s critical information! I can’t just do nothing, can I?”

Olesm grabbed at the letters. He looked around. Pisces nodded. He raised a cup and downed his drink as well before standing.

“I believe Liscor would lack the books required. But Pallass may well have the tomes you want, Olesm. Why don’t we visit the city and come back to study Erin’s games?”

The [Strategist] paused.

“You want to come with me, Pisces?”

The [Necromancer] pretended to inspect his robes.

“I imagine you’d want to craft a suitably encompassing reply to your detractors. And I personally think a few scathing remarks would not go amiss to the more asinine complaints. A proper, cited essay isn’t easy to do either. You would do far worse than Wistram’s top student in drafting a proper dissertation.”

“Former top student.”

Ceria whispered. Pisces ignored her. Erin blinked. And then she remembered that Pisces and Olesm did hang out together from time to time. The [Strategist] sniffed again.

“Thanks, Pisces.”

The [Necromancer] smiled and seemed uncomfortable at the genuine emotion. He conjured a sneer to hide it.

“Lead on, friend Olesm. And don’t drip on me. Miss Solstice, we will be borrowing the door to Pallass. If you don’t object?”

He raised his brows as he steered Olesm towards the door. Erin opened her mouth. Then she paused.

“Nope. Go ahead.”

Pisces opened the door, and Pallass’ streets appeared for a second. Then he and Olesm walked through, and the door went dead. Erin winced, but then she grinned.

“You big softie.”

“That’s certainly new.”

Ceria started at the door. She blinked at Yvlon, who blinked back.

“Who knew Pisces would actually volunteer to help anyone. Well, I’d better recharge that door. Damn. I’ll get it up and running, but those two might have to stay in Pallass the night.”

Grumbling, she went over to the door. But Erin caught the pleased look on her face. The [Innkeeper] looked at the letters, and swept the ones on the table into a pile.

“Well, I think I’ll wait and see if they can find a way back. I’m always free to talk about chess. And Go…I think I can remember a few good games. Hold on. Do we have a good Go board? I should get one made.”

She got up. The inn’s guests sighed. The show was over. And as if on cue, Numbtongue wandered down the stairs, yawning and scratching at a few recently healed bites on his legs. He stopped when he saw the crowd.

“Morning. What’s that?”

He pointed at the blue fruit juice. Erin beamed.

“Blue fruit juice! Want some?”

The Hobgoblin looked dubious, but he accepted the drink and downed some of it. Instantly. his eyes brightened. He had another cup as Erin explained where she’d gotten it and gave him a summary of what had just happened. The [Bard] didn’t seem disappointed to have missed Olesm, but after a few second’s thought, he grabbed some of the letters to read himself. No one stopped him.

Lyonette was counting the coin from her recent sales. She looked around, and then came to a second decision.

“Ishkr—no, actually, Numbtongue, can you do me a favor?”

The Goblin and Gnoll looked up. Lyonette gestured towards the magic door that Ceria was recharging.

“The door’s got only a bit of energy left, but it should recharge in an hour. And it’s got enough for a few teleportations. So…Numbtongue, can you bring a door out to the orchard and find a place for it? That way we’ll spare the trip and danger collecting the fruits from now on.”

Erin’s eyes brightened with delight.

“Ooh. A door right next to the orchard? That would make everything so much easier! But why Numbtongue and not Ishkr?”

“Numbtongue can call down lightning bolts. Ishkr, set the door to his stone just in case. Numbtongue, do you mind?”

The [Bard] eyed his drink and shook his head.

“Easy. I’ll do it.”

The Hobgoblin grabbed his guitar and a blue fruit core on the way out. Lyonette followed him, pointing out the orchard’s direction for Numbtongue.

“Just use your emergency door for now. I’ll order a…door from Liscor or Celum.”

He nodded and ambled out. Erin smiled. That was another thing. Numbtongue was so casual. He talked, he did his thing—and he belonged here. Lyonette certainly didn’t hesitate to ask him to lift something or help her out.

Erin got out a Go board and the stones and put them on a table. She remembered her magical chessboard and inspected it.

“No moves since last time. But that’s okay. We don’t play too often. I wonder if my opponent’s bored? I’m not. Just busy.”

Despite having more time on her hands, Erin just didn’t play chess as much as she had at some points in her life. There was an entire Walled City to see. And besides, a few games every other day was good enough. It wasn’t like she was obsessed. But for Olesm’s newsletter, Erin was only too happy to begin recreating some devilishly hard Go games and chess matches.

Ironically, it was that which killed almost all interest in her. The inn patrons returned to watching the play, while Ksmvr and two of the guests who liked chess watched Erin with pure fascination. She was happily explaining a game to them when the door opened, and Numbtongue strolled through. He wiped his feet on the rug and tossed a blue fruit at Lyonette.

“Done.”

“Wow! That was fast!”

Erin looked up. Numbtongue gave Erin a long look.

“It’s been thirty minutes.”

“It has?”

Mrsha was asleep in the seat next to her. Erin looked at the chess board.

“Huh.”

Then she went back to explaining chess to her small audience. Lyonette treated Numbtongue to a bowl of chewy pretzels and mayonnaise as a thank-you, and Ceria yawned, mana spent and tired. Yvlon got up as the Players of Celum began a run-through of Macbeth.

“I’m going to do some training in the Adventurer’s Guild. Ksmvr, will you join me?”

“I am being fascinated, Yvlon. I fear I must decline.”

Ksmvr waved a hand at Yvlon. She nodded and ambled through the door to Liscor. Erin stayed where she was, smiling. She had some blue fruit juice, she was playing chess, and she had just seen the pawn on the magic chessboard move experimentally.

The crisis with Olesm was over. She had blue fruits, Acid Flies might be on the way, and Erin had games to play and a cake to bake. Pisces and Olesm might come back tonight, and in that case Erin would have fun teaching them some more strategy and seeing what they’d written.

That was her day. It was a fine day. It would have happened almost just like that too, but for a strange thing. Five minutes after Yvlon had left, she thrust the door open.

“Hey. There’s a huge crowd in Liscor. It looks like some kind of protest! Anyone know what it’s about? It looks like Krshia’s leading it!”

She said it to the room, but her eyes went straight to Erin at her table. The young woman paused in moving a spectral chess piece and looked up.

“Who, me? I didn’t do it.”

Ceria, Mrsha, Lyonette, and Ishkr all turned to look at Erin. Numbtongue poked his head down the stairwell with his bowl of pretzels in one hand. The Players of Celum and other guests turned to stare. Erin raised her hands.

“It wasn’t me! Honest!”

She hesitated and rolled her eyes up for a second.

“I…think.”

In fact, for once, the event had nothing to do with Erin. It had been started by people who had no intention of involving her, and nothing in her inn or any of her actions had started it, in any direct sense of the word. It was happening outside of Erin’s inn and outside of her ability to influence the situation greatly.

It was a novel situation.



——



In Liscor, the name of The Wandering Inn was as famous as that of the Tailless Thief. It was a place that almost everyone had heard of. Most people could point it out, even if they called it an eyesore or a ‘festering hotspot of trouble’. Of course, there were people who spoke only praise of it. And those who didn’t care.

But love it, hate it, the inn had become part of Liscor. It was known. And the young woman who ran it, Erin Solstice, was just as infamous. People recognized her on the street. That insane loon of a Human. The girl who protected Goblins. The [Innkeeper] who’d helped destroy Skinner. Friend of the Antinium. Foe of the Raskghar. That crazy Human.

Her life was full of events. So here was someone in Liscor who did not have an eventful life. He was a Drake. And his name was Ulseil Greenscale. He had green scales.

Nothing about Ulseil's life was that extraordinary. Nor was he an extraordinary figure. Oh, he had some qualities that were out of the ordinary, but only in a mundane sense. He was not one of the Oldblood, although his great, great aunt had been gifted with vestigial wings. A source of much pride in the Greenscale family.

Ulseil himself though had no defining features. His scales were an olive green. He wasn’t particularly tall, although his tail was half an inch stouter than the average. Ulseil was proud of that fact, and worried about the slight bleaching of color in his neck spines over the years. He was in his middle ages and often dressed in less contrasting clothing to accentuate the color of his scales and spines. Because he wasn’t married. He’d always waited for the right Drake to come along (or Gnoll, you couldn’t be picky, although the fur was something to think about), but he’d never just…clicked with anyone.

So Ulseil was looking, but not too hard. And honestly, wasn’t he a catch? If you were into ordinary fish, he was…a trout? A good one, though. Ulseil was a [Merchant], the current head of Liscor’s Merchant’s Guild. And he was a wealthy Drake, at least in Liscor. That made him slightly unordinary, even influential. But unlike the more ambitious breed of [Merchant], Ulseil was content to make money, save it, and not put his tail on the line to earn a vast amount.

He was happy. Or at least, he thought he was happy. Ulseil's one goal in life was to find Miss Greenscale, or Greenfur, again, as the case might be. Not Greenflesh, thanks. Ulseil had gotten over his weird years, and a body covered in skin just didn’t do it. He knew it was only a matter of time. He was a desirable candidate, after all! He was head of the Merchant’s Guild, fairly wealthy, and he was even part of Liscor’s Council.

Sometimes Ulseil forgot that himself. It wasn’t as if it were a brilliant job. A Councilmember earned a small stipend from the city, met once every week or more if need be, and generally made decisions that would keep Liscor running. Usually, this just meant following the advice of Liscor’s [Strategist] and the army, which sent regular suggestions back.

Sometimes, the Watch Captain brought forwards an issue, and the Council had to debate on what course of action was best. They always had options, and deciding between those options could get heated at times—sometimes there were even quills thrown about! But it was seldom arduous.

Until recently, of course. The events of the last few months had given Ulseil more grey scales than he could count. The Council had been meeting almost every day near the end, and always to little gain. The Watch Captain wanted her orders and, of course, something had to be done. But was the Council the body to really do it?

None of them were [Politicians] or [Leaders]. It was frankly a waste of levels, which was why the Council was always made up of Guildmasters or other prominent members of Liscor’s society and rotated on a bi-yearly basis. Usually, Liscor ran itself, with occasional input from the army or its Watch Captain and [Strategist]. But recently?

At least Zel Shivertail had been around. And Wall Lord Ilvriss. Ulseil shuddered as he sat at an outdoor restaurant and had some perfectly ordinary salad—to watch his figure. If Wall Lord Ilvriss hadn’t kindly stepped in and given his aid to the Council, who knows what might have happened? There was just no precedent for any of the disasters that had hit Liscor, from the dungeon to the Raskghar. And the Council wasn’t about to steer the boat that was the city itself, thank-you.

Ulseil was looking forwards to getting out of his job. He’d helped Liscor survive the worst and even potential war with the Humans, and he could pat himself on the back for that. He’d appoint a successor as was the custom of the Council, and the poor Drake he nominated would be in charge for two years.

Ulseil was already looking at his second in the Merchant’s Guild, a really outstanding young Drake who was only in his thirties. Solid, sharp. It never crossed Stale’s mind to nominate anyone outside of his Guild. The Merchant’s Guild, which was almost solely comprised of Drakes, needed a voice on the Council. Just in case. It wouldn’t do to go somewhere else and rock the boat, would it?

This was Ulseil Greenscale. You could sum up his life in less than a thousand words, and even that would probably be too many. He sat at a restaurant eating salad, even though greens gave him gas. And he was not prepared for anything interesting to happen to him. Unfortunately, interesting spotted him on the street, strolled over with a brisk, ‘excuse me!’ and sat down at his table.

Ulseil looked up, fork in his right claw, as a Drake slid into the seat across from him. This Drake was interesting. He had an eye patch. His scales were a sharp viridian, and he was imposing, physically and in demeanor. When he spoke, his voice was more of a bark; it had that quality that made every sentence sound like a statement.

“You there. You’re Ulseil Greenscale, aren’t you? I’ve been looking for you. Mind if I have a word? Regisav Sixtails. [Butcher].”

He held out a claw. Ulseil stared at him, but then saw the invitation for a handshake. He hesitated, but it would have been rude to refuse, so Ulseil shook the proffered hand.

“Er, how do you do? I’m pleased to meet you. Ulseil, as you know. Head of the Merchant’s Guild and [Merchant] myself.”

“Pleased. So tell me. What’s this about Liscor not funding the City Watch?”

“…Huh?”

Ulseil stared at Regisav. The [Butcher] leaned further over the table.

“I said, the City Watch. I hear we’re not giving Watch Captain Zevara all the funds she asked for. She plans to double the Watch. I say that’s a good idea. We need more boots on the wall. The damn army’s not here to pick up the slack. I get that—they’re earning us coin in Oteslia, but with that dungeon, we need defenders, right? Can’t let the Antinium do all the work. So why’s the Council not giving her the funds?”

He stared expectantly at Ulseil. The [Merchant] blinked and fumbled for his words, completely off-guard.

“I—where did you hear that? That’s confidential information!”

His mind raced as he wondered how this Drake had found out about the Council’s latest vote. It would be public knowledge, but—drat Watch Captain Zevara! Was she causing trouble because they’d turned down her request? It was just like those young, hot-blooded female Drakes. He ground his teeth. The Council would have words with her. He composed his face and smiled insincerely at Regisav.

“I’m sorry, Butcher Regisav, was it? I’m not at liberty to discuss the Council’s decisions myself.”

That sounded good and official. Unfortunately, it didn’t work. The viridian Drake’s brows shot up, and he raised his voice.

“Oh, so you won’t discuss why the City Watch isn’t being properly funded with me? Is there some kind of big secret? It’s just a question!”

Heads began turning at the restaurant and on the street. Ulseil winced as he saw a couple of Drakes pause and stare.

“It’s not that! It’s just that I. uh, I can’t speak for the entire Council.”

“But you all made the decision. What’s there to hide? Is it lack of money? Will the army be sending more soldiers? It’s got to be something. Come on, just tell me.”

Regisav prodded Ulseil. The [Merchant] was sweating.

“It’s—look, it’s a complicated issue. I could pull up all the necessary reports, but some of them are classified, and it’s just not something I can get into. Here. While I’m eating?”

He tried not to sound hopeful. Regisav frowned, but to Ulseil's great relief, he reluctantly nodded.

“I suppose that’s fair.”

Ulseil sighed. Too quickly as it turned out. Regisav edged his chair closer to the table.

“Alright then. Why aren’t you thinking about taxing Liscor’s dungeon? And why aren’t there any Gnolls on the Council?”

“What? Tax, I—who’s telling you all this!”

Ulseil saw to his horror that the Drakes on the street were listening closely, as were some of the diners at the table. He looked around for the [Waitress], but she didn’t appear inclined to come over for the bill. Regisav pointed a thumb-claw over his shoulder.

“I heard some Gnolls talking about it. Said the Council doesn’t ever accept Gnolls or new ideas. Why aren’t we putting an entry tax on the dungeon? And why isn’t the Council doing something about rent?”

“Wait, what tax on the dungeon? We’re not taxing the adventurers?”

Someone broke in from another table. The [Butcher] turned around.

“Apparently not. And we could. That’s the thing. Blew me away when I heard it too. We’re not taxing the adventurers, even though they’re bringing in gold from the dungeon. And there’s no plans to deal with rent.”

“No plans? My [Landlady] charged me an entire silver piece more than she did last month!”

Someone on the street strode over to the table, tail lashing furiously. Ulseil leaned back as a young Drake practically hissed at him. Suddenly, he was at the center of attention, and he didn’t like it one bit. Regisav, who was now speaking for a crowd, leaned even further over the table.

“So about this tax.”

“I haven’t heard about any tax! Not one thing! Who proposed it?”

“Krshia Silverfang.”

“Who’s that?”

The [Butcher] shrugged.

“A [Shopkeeper]. I know her from Market Street. She’s pretty famous. Runs a clean shop. Good prices. I sell my meat to her—”

“Why would I know about some [Shopkeeper]’s ideas?”

Ulseil was outraged. That outrage stopped cold when some [Butcher] gave him a glare over the table. Regisav tapped the table with one claw.

“Because she’s been trying to get the Council to consider her suggestion for weeks! Apparently, she’s tried everything. And the Council just hasn’t listened. And it’s a damn fine idea, taxing the adventurers! Not to mention it could pay for the Watch—or expanding the Adventurer’s Guild! But that Krshia, she brought up another good point. Why are no Gnolls on Liscor’s Council? It’s all Drakes, and all Guild Leaders too. [Merchants] and so on. What about a [Butcher]? We don’t have a Guild, but our class has never had a seat on the Council. Ever.”

He looked meaningfully at Ulseil. The Drake might have been an ordinary person, but he was still a [Merchant]. He could process fast, and he knew a bad situation from his days as a [Trader]. He stood up abruptly, fishing for coins in his money pouch.

“I’m sorry, sir. But I can’t just sit here and tell you about the Council’s decisions on request! If there is a request, we’ll consider it as long as it comes through proper channels.”

“Which are?”

“What?”

Regisav looked impatient.

“What are the proper channels?”

Ulseil hesitated. ‘I don’t know’ was not a good answer here.

“—Talk to Strategist Olesm! Or Watch Captain Zevara! As for Gnolls, the Council selects its own members. The lack of a Gnoll on the Council is just…”

He trailed off. There were six Gnolls watching now. They stared at him with their big, brown eyes, unblinking. One of them, a male Gnoll, or a very burly female one, folded his arms.

“Go on. What is it just? Why aren’t we on the Council? Does the Council just never pick Gnolls?”

“Of course not. Don’t be silly.”

“Then why not let us pick the next Council? With a public vote?”

The question threw Ulseil. He stared at the Gnoll, along with a lot of the Drakes. But more than one face looked interested. Ulseil was just horrified.

“What, like some kind of election? Are you mad?”

“It’s just a suggestion. That’s what I heard too. You come from Market Street?”

Regisav turned to the Gnoll. The Gnoll nodded and bared his teeth.

“We could vote on the next Council. Why not? We could elect the best representatives. Gnolls, Drakes—male or female. Only, I was told that the Council wouldn’t even hear Honored Krshia’s request, or any of her suggestions.”

The [Butcher] grunted.

“I’m just worried about the City Watch. We need more funds for our [Guardsmen]! If this Council won’t do it, how do we know they won’t pick another Council that’ll just do the same? And not answer any of my questions.”

He looked pointedly at Ulseil. The [Merchant] spluttered as he backed away from the table. But he bumped into someone behind him who didn’t move.

“This is all ridiculous. The Council chooses the best members to replace us as we see fit. We make the best decisions for Liscor. The lack of money going to the City Watch is regrettable.”

“Ah, so it was unavoidable, then? Is the city out of money?”

Ulseil's jaw worked for a second as his mind clamped down on any words out of sheer self-preservation.

“I can’t comment. Excuse me, I have to go. I don’t have time to talk about elections or whatnot.”

“So you’re just going to avoid the issue? You won’t even tell us why you won’t allow it?”

The Gnolls looked outraged. Ulseil tried to back away again and failed.

“I’m not avoiding it! I’m just very busy! The Council will decide. Later! You—you can’t just walk up to a Councilmember on the street and ask questions, you know!”

No one budged. The angry Gnoll folded his arms.

“Why not? You are a member of the Council, yes? Why can you not defend the Council’s decisions? You made them, did you not?”

The walls were closing in. And the walls were made of bodies, of scales and fur. Ulseil looked around wildly for any sign of escape. He found one and jumped for it.

“Ask—ask Watch Captain Zevara! Yes, she’s the Watch Captain of the City. She can field any requests.”

The crowd looked at each other. Regisav shook his head sadly. He hadn’t gotten up from his seat.

“She’s put out a public announcement that the Watch has no part in the Council’s decisions beyond enforcement. She’s also said that she’d support and help enforce an election. Even for her own position. You didn’t hear?”

He had not. Ulseil closed his eyes. He was going to kill Watch Captain Zevara. If he ever got back to the Council, he’d—he’d—put forwards some kind of motion for censure! What was the precedent for disciplining Watch Captains? Well, Ulseil was going to do some research and find out for once. He snapped at last.

“I’m not—look, we have a meeting every week. I’m not the one responsible for all of the decisions! It’s a collective decision! A vote! It’s out of my claws, get it? Now, please, I have to be going.”

He turned around. Drakes stared at him. Ulseil put his hands out to push and thought better. One of the Drakes tapped a claw to her chin. She was the [Waitress].

“But the Council’s, what, eight people? See here, you have a vote. You’re one eighth of the Council. Would you support an election? Or put the idea before the Council yourself? That’s all I want to know.”

Ulseil hesitated.

“I can’t decide that. It’s got to be a majority decision. I can’t just give—”

He looked around, hunted. The [Waitress] propped her claws on her hips.

“Why not? All we want to know is what you, personally, would do. Not what the Council does.”

“I—I—”

This had never happened. Ulseil was hyperventilating. When the previous Councilmember, the former head of the Merchant’s Guild, had told him about the position, he’d described it as just a series of boring meetings. He’d never hinted to Ulseil that he’d ever be surrounded and asked these sorts of questions! He was a Councilmember! He shouldn’t be subjected to this!

“What’s your opinion? Yes or no on elections? No Gnolls in the Council? Yes?”

Regisav was pushing Ulseil. The others were watching, calling out questions. The [Merchant] spun, and a desperate sentence escaped his lips.

“Of course! Of course I’d support Gnolls on the Council. Elections! Why not? We could try it.”

The mood of the crowd instantly…relaxed. They started murmuring, and Ulseil saw his chance to escape. He began to push through the crowd, taking advantage of the lull. Right up until he heard the voice from the Gnoll.

“You hear that? He supports it! That’s one fifth of the votes right there for a majority! Let’s tell Honored Krshia! Spread the word, Councilman Ulseil says yes to elections!”

“Wait, you can’t do that!”

Ulseil spun around. He began to panic, but it was too late. Already, someone was calling it out.

“Councilman Ulseil says he would allow an election for the Council seats! That’s at least one vote right there! What do the other Councilmembers have to say?”

“Wait, wait! Don’t shout that! I haven’t decided! Not entirely!”

Ulseil screamed desperately. The crowd twisted back on him. Regisav the [Butcher] looked incredulous.

“But you just said yes! Wait, were you lying?”

“No, no…”

Ulseil the [Merchant] waved his claws frantically. He hadn’t been lying! Well, not entirely. He would have brought it up before the Council. Maybe. And they probably would have entertained the idea for a few seconds. He’d just said that to get the crowd off his back. But having to commit to that exact idea?

Only, now the crowd was staring at Ulseil. They had heard his words and, worse, were taking them at face value. There was no comfortable, closed city hall meeting room where Ulseil could debate with the other seven Councilmembers whom he all knew, and look for the best and easiest option, or ask Olesm or Zevara for their opinions. There was no Wall Lord Ilvriss to take charge, or orders from the army. Zel Shivertail was dead.

All Ulseil had were his own opinions and words in this crowd of Liscor’s people. He would be accountable for everything he said. The Drake looked around wildly, realized there was no way out, and screamed once before fainting. Unfortunately, they were all there when he woke up.



——



The crowd that had gathered in Market Street was no riot. It wasn’t an angry mob, or even an audience to the tragedy or spectacle that usually occurred when Erin was present. It was just a crowd filled with listening citizens. Because the center of attention wasn’t Erin Solstice for once.

It was Krshia Silverfang. She stood on her stall’s counter, almost as if she were hawking her goods to passersby. But her stage was much larger this time, the audience more crucial. And her words had more impact than any goods she could have sold. Because, this time, Krshia was selling an idea.

“It’s very simple, yes? Liscor’s Council needs to be changed!”

The Gnoll was speaking to the crowd. It was the third crowd she’d addressed this morning, and it was the largest one yet. People slip in and out, some having heard what Krshia had to say, others bringing friends to listen. Liscor was, after all, a small city in the large scheme of things. And Krshia was a known face. She had a simple message too, which helped.

“The Council should be replaced. It will be replaced, yes? This is the year when the Council changes! But do we want them to choose their replacements? Do we trust the Council to make good decisions? Have they made good decisions before, I wonder?”

The crowd muttered. No one exactly leapt to the Council’s defense. Krshia nodded and went on.

“What did they do when the Raskghar attacked? Or when Liscor was under siege? It seems to me Watch Captain Zevara handled all of the work! And perhaps that is well, for a Watch Captain is in charge of a city’s security. But why then were more funds not allocated to the Watch? Why didn’t the Council begin implementing new regulations on the dungeons? Why has rent doubled, yes, doubled in some parts of the city without the Council addressing the issue?”

“Tell us, then! Why aren’t they doing anything?”

One of the Drakes called out impatiently in the crowd. Krshia gave him a bitter smile, one with lips.

“The answer, Mister Silkscale, is that the Council, this Council, does not act. It maintains. And a city that does not change becomes weak. The Council does not give more funds to Liscor’s City Watch. It does not pass new laws. It does not, in fact, do anything. Which is why many of us are fed up!”

Her words provoked a lot of nodding in the crowd. Not wild cheering; Drakes were hard to get to cheer, and Gnolls even harder in many respects. But they were nodding with her. Krshia raised her voice to carry even further.

“We want a new Council. And we, the Gnolls of Liscor, want to be on it.”

She tapped her chest. This provoked a few howls, similar to cat calls but much deeper, in the crowd. The Drakes looked around, but Krshia didn’t sense a lot of distrust of the idea. Just curiosity.

“And how does that help the Council? We get Gnolls who do nothing, instead of just Drakes?”

Someone called out, and laughter followed. Krshia wondered if there was a [Heckler] class. Probably, yes. She grinned in the direction of the shouter.

“No. The Council should be made up of those who will pass laws. Who will change the city. So why should the Council replace itself? Would it not be better if, instead, the city chose its Council this year?”

She may have been too roundabout in her statement. The crowd digested what Krshia meant, and then someone called out incredulously.

“An election? Like some kind of democracy? You have to be joking! We’re not those loons in Pallass!”

That provoked the most unified head-nodding yet. Krshia bared her teeth desperately. She’d had to sell them on this twice. And she was a good [Shopkeeper]. She could do it again!

“Would you want the army appointing the Council? Or the existing Council to replace itself? How else would you choose a Council?”

No one had an easy answer for that, which was the point. Krshia waved a paw at them.

“Elections are strange, yes? But think of it. We could choose our own Council. We could choose eight of our best, rather than eight Drakes many of us have never heard of. Who here knows the name of a single Council member? Anyone?”

The crowd waited. There was no response. Krshia, who knew the names of all eight, nodded slowly.

“You see? But if we elected a Council, we would know what they would vote for. Where they would stand. You would get a Council that acts, yes? And if some Gnolls were to be part of the Council, well, it would be because they were trusted by all. Is that not so?”

“So you want an election. To choose the next Council.”

Someone near the front raised their voice. Krshia bowed slightly to an older Drake.

“Yes, sir. A fair election. Gnolls and Drakes both compete for a seat on the Council. Nothing is gained that is not deserved. Is that not an idea worth considering?”

The people of Liscor looked at each other. Some were nodding. Krshia had a moment of hope as she saw a few more figures join near the back. And then, from behind her, she heard a mocking tone.

“Gnolls have lived in Liscor for about a decade. Your people were a tiny minority until then, Silverfang. Now you strut in and demand a voice when we Drakes built this city and have lived in it for centuries! How is that fair, Krshia?”

The slightly hissing, indignant voice was familiar. As was the glaring expression. The tight-lipped smile. And he was standing on his own stall too. Krshia glared.

“Lism.”

“You’re disrupting my business, Silverfang.”

The [Shopkeeper] glared at Krshia. She glared back. The feud between her and Lism was well-established. If there were two top salespeople on Market Street, it was Lism and Krshia, and they got along about as well as Drakes and Gnolls had historically.

“Why should Gnolls be part of the Council, Lism? Why should they not? What is wrong with giving the option to anyone who the city trusts?”

“Only that our Council has led the city fine until your people came along. Now you want elections? Is this a blatant power grab or just insurrection against the city, Krshia? What’s wrong with the Council’s decisions? Last I checked, Liscor was still standing. Or is defeating the Raskghar, beating back the Humans and Goblins and those damned moths not good enough for you?”

Lism studied his claws as he spoke nonchalantly. Yet the look he gave Krshia was anything but. And he got some nods in the crowd. Not as many, and not from any Gnolls, but some. Krshia gritted her teeth.

“I did not say the Council has done nothing—”

“That’s what you just said, Silverfang. They did nothing.”

“Well, perhaps it was the City Watch and adventurers who did the work while the Council made no changes!”

The Gnoll snapped back. Lism raised his brows.

“And what should they have done? They let the adventurers and the City Watch do their job. How is that a fault? Should the Council run about slaying Face-Eater Moths themselves?”

His words provoked chuckles. Krshia cursed Lism as she flushed and regained her footing. When she spoke, she ignored Lism’s question and stuck to her script.

“I say the Council has not done enough. That is what I am saying, Lism. And if I were on the Council, I would do more! I have put suggestions before them, tried to get their attention and been ignored! So! I am telling all you what I would do instead, since Liscor’s Council will not listen to me!”

Krshia turned her back on Lism and felt his scowl. She spread her paws, speaking as sincerely and as clearly as possible.

“If I were on the Council, I would put a tax on adventurers entering the dungeon and use the money to expand the Adventurer’s Guild. I would give more funds to the City Watch, to empower them to fight any foe that threatens Liscor in the future! The Council has not done either of these things, but if there were elections and I were elected, I would make that happen!”

Krshia watched the reactions of her audience. They perked their ears up, or looked at each other approvingly. But that was just the opening. Krshia took a breath.

“Not only that. One of the crucial issues is the soaring rent. You know it. I know it. We all pay more because Liscor is full. That is why, I say to you all now. If I was on the Council, I would solve this issue of rent. I would expand Liscor’s walls.”

A hush. And then a shout of incredulity from Lism and questions and noise from the crowd. Krshia raised her paws.

“Think on it. Liscor can hold less than a hundred thousand souls when bursting to capacity. And we are an important city, a gateway, but think of how small Liscor is! Have you not heard people of the Walled City calling Liscor a backwater? How long have these walls stayed the same? Liscor cannot grow larger than our walls. But we are not Rock Crabs, yes?”

She got several nods before Lism burst out. The [Shopkeeper] was furious as he pointed a claw at Krshia.

“You can’t expand the walls, you idiot! They’re enchanted! They’ve been here for centuries!”

“Why not? They are still just stone. Enchanted stone. But that can be built, surely?”

Lism opened his mouth furiously and hesitated. Krshia jumped in.

“Before the Second Antinium Wars, Liscor had many smaller villages around the Floodplains. Why not build more? And, I know this from the records, Liscor was not always this size! It too was built! The walls expanded twice before reaching this size! I say, why not expand them again? Why not build more walls, more houses? Why not?”

“Because—because of the cost! And because it’s not needed! We’ve had these walls for decades! At least!”

Lism faltered. He hadn’t prepared for this debate, and Krshia had. She grinned at him and felt the malice coming off him.

“So? It is just stone. And if you say we cannot afford to pay for it, Lism, I say, that is why I propose the tax on adventurers! And Liscor has its treasury. We have income from our army. We can build it cheaply.”

“Oh yes? And who can build an entire wall large enough to hold back the spring rains before next year?”

The Drake glared angrily at Krshia. She smiled. Thank you, Lism. She looked around, and the answer was on the tongue of half the people in the crowd.

“The Antinium can. And if I ask them, I think they would. They could build us a larger city. They are Liscor’s allies, are they not? And we could have a larger city. We could put a fair tax on the adventurers, expand the City Watch. But the current Council will not do it. But if we had an election—if, friends. If that were possible.”

Krshia looked across the faces, scales and fur. And she saw a Human one, peeking up and holding a white Gnoll at the back of the crowd. Krshia grinned at Mrsha, and she bowed, ignoring the simmering Lism.

“I think it is possible. And this is our city. Shouldn’t we decide what we want it to be?”

Her people looked up at her, and they got the idea.



——



Later that day, all eight of Liscor’s Councilmembers found themselves under siege. Not in the literal sense, but very much close to it. They were confronted at work, on the streets, and in their homes by insistent citizens, angry citizens with little regard for personal space. And like Ulseil, they found that Liscor’s people wanted direct answers.

Krshia’s message was spreading like wildfire. An election? Well, why not? It wasn’t as if they were going to turn into Pallass. And choosing your own Council? There was some idea to that! And why not Gnolls? They were part of the city, sure enough. And did you hear what Krshia would do? And if she could run…what about you?

It was one of those ideas that took hold. Well, why not? What did Liscor have to lose? And look at how much it had to gain. Like the debate over Goblins, the conversation invaded the streets, routing the indifferent and forcing people to take sides, figure out what they thought.

But one Drake didn’t need to think. He’d known exactly what he thought the moment he heard Krshia speaking.

“Outrageous.”

Lism the [Shopkeeper] strode through the streets, fuming. He’d been unable to keep standing on the stall with that—that Gnoll gleefully shouting at the crowd. Lism knew he couldn’t stop her, not alone, but she was completely wrong. He could stand her ideas about adventurers, even if he personally would kick them out. He might even agree with her ideas about the Watch. But the Antinium?

Never. And Krshia? Lism would sooner pull off his tail and eat it than see that sanctimonious, smug Gnoll on the Council. He stormed into the Mage’s Guild and up to the front desk. The [Receptionist] on duty stared at him. Lism snapped, almost too angry for words.

“Send a highest-priority [Message] to Liscor’s High Command at once. Tell them there is a situation in Liscor that requires their immediate attention.”

“A [Message], sir? High priority? You want instant delivery and straight to the [Mage] in the army? That’ll cost gold, sir. We can’t do that unless it’s an emergency. Are you sure?”

The young Drake looked uncomfortable. Lism drew up short. He glared at her.

“What? Yes, of course it’s an emergency! I want an immediate connection! Don’t worry about the cost; they’ll pay for everything! Tell them I must speak with them at once!”

She hesitated.

“Sir, I can’t just send a priority request. Let alone to the army. That’s a serious alert! I’d have to get the Watch Captain’s permission at least to do that. Or the Council’s. Or Strategist Olesm’s. Do you have their authorization?”

“I—the Council is indisposed, but I’m acting on their behalf! This concerns them!”

Lism pounded a clawed fist on the desk. The [Receptionist] stared at it. And then at him. She frowned slowly.

“Maybe I should call my boss. Sir. Please hold on.”

She backed up, making a not-so-covert gesture to one of the other [Receptionists]. Lism saw the Gnoll pull a tiny string that would ring an outside bell. For the Watch. He flushed and bellowed.

“There isn’t any time for this! I demand an instant [Message] to the High Command! They need to hear this! Don’t you dare pull that string again! Do you know who I am?”

They blinked at him. The Drake [Receptionist] opened her mouth, peered at Lism, and then shook her head slowly.

“…No.”





6.29


Klbkch sat in a small office inside the Hive of the Free Antinium of Liscor. He had a desk, a proper wooden one, and a chair. Aside from that, his office didn’t resemble any other building by the name in this world or Erin’s. At least, Klbkch assumed this was the case. If there were any Humans who worked in what was essentially a hole in the ground that would have induced claustrophobia in most species, he would nod to efficiency of space optimization if nothing else.

Most offices had filing cabinets. Or lights. Or at the very least, bathrooms. But Klbkch’s office had none of these things. If need be, he could access the waste disposal areas the Antinium used. The Hive was literally five steps out a door, which he did not, in fact, have. And he needed little of the supplies most [Secretaries] or [Receptionists] or [Clerks] needed.

Klbkch’s desk had a quill and ink pot among the few devices in place. He used that to write notes. But as mentioned, he seldom stored any writing. A truly important document, say, a map of Albez, would go to one of the Hive’s storage rooms specifically designated for reading materials.

But Klbkch’s personal correspondence or information he recycled, tossing organics into the vats tended to by Workers, which made the Antinium’s edible paste. Paper and parchment and even most kinds of ink were actually more palatable than what went into those vats. Non-edibles were disposed of very sanitarily.

Klbkch kept almost nothing. He remembered what was important. And he never, ever forgot what was truly important. All else was dust.

At the moment, Klbkch sat straight in his chair, reading some notes. They were his daily briefing; the totality of information available to him as the Free Antinium’s Revalantor, which meant spymaster, head of security, vice-ruler, steward, strategist, engineer, diplomat…essentially everything and anything he needed to be. The Free Queen was, of course, in charge, but she listened to Klbkch’s opinions, and he could overrule her if need be.

So this was his report. It was short compared to, say, the pages and pages of neatly written documents that Ressa received every morning, which had already been reviewed by Magnolia’s staff. And that was because Klbkch had few information sources compared to anyone else.

The Antinium did not get [Criers], or written [Messages] from overseas. They did not have [Informants], although they did have ways of obtaining information. Nevertheless, it was sometimes difficult to get the most public of information.

An Antinium Listener, one of the rare subtypes of Antinium the Hive used, was a specialized version of their kind designed only to listen to sounds. They could pick up a conversation five miles away in a quiet room. But the Listeners couldn’t listen to everything, and they had short lives before their sensory organs experienced overload and they died. They died quickly, even for Antinium. And while Klbkch had learned all kinds of interesting things over the years from the Antinium’s networks, he sometimes missed the mountain for the shiny pebbles on the road.

The scrawls of the Listeners recorded conversations in full. The marching of feet, in number and proximity to the Hive. Sounds—animals, magic, or sometimes the gurgle of water flowing underground. All of it had been transcribed, and interpreting it would be impossible to most. But Klbkch could scan through the pages of the day’s overheard sounds and dismiss most at once. Three times he noted down interesting details.

“Water is eroding the sewer system underneath the southeastern street…in Scaithi Walk. The sounds indicate crumbling stonework. I will report the issue to Watch Captain Zevara. A conversation in a bar between ‘you idiot’ and Resci—possible male Drake, or male Gnoll raised in Liscor—indicates an exchange of illegal goods. Follow through with Relc during work hours. Possible link to drugs? Lastly, Shield Spider mating and reproduction appear greatly heightened, most likely due to Face-Eater Moth and Goblin corpses feeding population.”

Klbkch tapped his quill’s tip lightly on the table. He had not written any of that down. All of it was committed to memory now. The verbal repetition was to process Klbkch’s thoughts as an audio cue he could easily recall. Because, obviously, conscious thought and inferences were stored in a different way than auditory memory. One was easier for Klbkch to file and draw upon than the other. He didn’t think it worked so conveniently for other species, which was their loss.

Well, that was typical of the Listener’s reports. Scattered information at best; usually random unless something made a very loud and repeated sound. Like the marching of an army. But they had limits to their range as well. They could tell Klbkch nothing about politics or the world outside of Liscor. And he needed that information, so Klbkch studied a second piece of parchment. This was covered in his own handwriting.

Ironically, Klbkch’s best and most reliable news source for public information came from Relc and sitting in bars, listening to gossip. Because no one else talked to the Antinium. And while Relc was a very unreliable source, Klbkch was still able to glean the most-repeated facts and sift through the gossip. His notes from last night were only slightly smudged from some ale that Relc had spilled on his parchment. Klbkch read out loud, memorizing and thinking at the same time.

“An enduring war in Tiqr. The Mages of Wistram are selling scrying artifacts at an expensive profit. The sales coming through First Landing and Zeres are allegedly at least four hundred thousand gold pieces’ worth alone. In addition, the market value of such artifacts has risen suddenly and collapsed due to the sudden influx of manufactured artifacts coming from Wistram. Magnolia Reinhart and her peers were the subject of assassination attempts, all failed. The Drake city of Wicess was the subject of a large attack by hungry Griffins, unusual given their usual hunting territory…”

Klbkch read for eight minutes. He paused, digested everything he’d read, and discarded most of it. Instead, he focused on the news about Chandrar for a moment and sat back against the plain wooden back of his chair.

“The King of Destruction. What will he do? Tiqr is unlikely to last as more forces begin occupying its lands. Will the King of Destruction move? Could he, in theory, send out his vassals to roam as Gazi Pathseeker once did? His remaining war leaders are each capable of toppling nations in the right circumstances. It would be problematic if he fell and they were employed on Izril. Is that a possibility?”

Klbkch pondered. He distinctly recalled Gazi of Reim. As Named Adventurers went, she hadn’t been the most fearsome of the ones he had personally encountered or heard reports of during the Antinium Wars. But she was dangerous. And he had a small dossier on the rest of the King of Destruction’s Seven, which placed them all at Level 40. At least.

He had never met Flos of Reim. He had no idea what the King of Destruction’s war capabilities were. Nor had the Antinium ever done battle with the Titan of Baleros.

And yet, Klbkch was a Revalantor of the Hive, and it was his job to prepare for the worst scenario. He might only be part of the Free Antinium, but the fate of all the six remaining Hives concerned him. He did not like the possibility of either individual ever coming to Izril.

“The odds of any of his vassals seeking employment on Rhir are remote. However, destabilization in Chandrar shifts attention towards that continent. The King of Destruction’s success and Tiqr’s survival is to be hoped for—so long as he himself does not regain his former strength. What will be, will be. This speculation is fruitless for now. Monetary aid would not change the situation, even if it were feasible.”

With that said, Klbkch dismissed Chandrar and the King of Destruction from his list of immediate worries. And with that, he was nearly done with his daily routine. The last number on his short docket was a list of short integers. They had no context because Klbkch did not need the context. He knew what they were.

Casualty reports. Tallies of wounded Antinium, Soldiers and Workers on duty. Income earned, money spent. Levels gained by Individual Antinium. New Antinium created in the Hive. Tunnels constructed. Tunnels collapsed…

Numbers. Klbkch also wished he had access to the statistics of the other five Hives, all located in southern Izril. But his Hive had been cut off, his Free Queen rejected by her peers. Until now. Now, Klbkch thought of Xrn’s proposal to him. He did calculations that involved Antinium Soldiers, distance…

And boats. But that too was a far-off plan, one that required time to come to fruition. For now, Klbkch analyzed his Hive and judged it to be sound. He added two more notes to the day’s auditory recollections, not that he needed to remember. But they needed to be said out loud.

“I must speak to Wrymvr. And the tunnel linking Liscor to the Hives must be completed. And we must have more Queens.”

Simple tasks, impossible tasks. They were all the same to Klbkch. They had to be done. So he would do them or die. And even death was only an obstacle. Although it seemed with each death, it would be his final one…

Klbkch stood up after a second. The pieces of parchment covered with ink he carelessly tucked into his belt pouch for disposal. His table was now clean, and he was done with his duty. So it was back to work.

Last night, he had completed a shift with Relc into late morning, a total of nine hours. He had slept for three hours. This morning he had conducted a sweep of the Hive, gone to the barracks for scheduled socializing for an hour and a half and to fill out paperwork, and returned to the Hive to collect Listener reports and summarize his own notes here.

Now, Klbkch strode out of his office, ready to get back to work. He had to patrol with Relc again tonight, and there were his Revalantor duties to fulfill. The first one appeared not eight steps out of Klbkch’s office. Klbkch stopped as the smaller figure approached him.

“Revalantor Klbkch. Am I interrupting you?”

“Anand. Speak.”

The Worker nodded deferentially. He and Klbkch stood outside the office; Klbkch didn’t normally have a chair for anyone but himself.

“I came to inform you that Pawn is still not eating a fully balanced intake of nutrition. He eats, but he does not speak often. He does tend to the Painted Soldiers. But he is—dispirited.”

The [Tactician] paused hesitantly. Klbkch studied the Worker and wondered if Anand was afraid to bring the topic up to him again. He spoke curtly.

“Since the siege at Liscor. This is not new information.”

“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch. I bring it up because it has been another week since my last report.”

Klbkch’s head ached for the first time this day. He closed his mandibles firmly and, after a second’s thought, shook his head.

“Your report is received, Anand. So long as Pawn maintains some form of intake and he is able to respond and carries out his functions, that will be sufficient. If he is…unhappy, let him be so. I have spoken to Erin on the subject, and she has expressed her philosophy. So long as Pawn eats and does not neglect the other Painted Antinium, he may be emotionally unfit as he wishes to be. I can do nothing for him. I am, apparently, not a nurturing figure. Even if I am a father one. According to Erin Solstice.”

“A father figure?”

“Apparently.”

Both Antinium stared at each other for a long moment. Anand’s mandibles opened and closed a few times.

“I see. I will inquire as to the meaning when I see Miss Solstice again. And I will continue monitoring Pawn.”

“Do so. Apprise me in a week unless a situation develops.”

Anand nodded a bit reluctantly. Klbkch ignored that too. He would readily admit that both Anand and Belgrade had become instrumental in making the Hive more efficient, but they were still subordinates with personalities. And Klbkch wasn’t used to having other individual Antinium around him besides the Queen. He had functioned like this for a decade. And before that…

Alarm. Alarm. ALARM.

It wasn’t actually that word. But it was danger, an intense, alert, but not panicked feeling. And it came from above. Klbkch’s head snapped up immediately, and Anand paused.

“Revalantor?”

“The Soldiers guarding the Hive’s city entrance report intruders.”

“An invasion?”

Anand shifted. Now he was ready to run. Klbkch shook his head. The nuance of the thoughts he’d picked up on from above weren’t as immediate as they would be if someone had actually attempted to breach the Hive. Klbkch would have sensed them fighting as well. He concentrated, sending his thoughts up to see exactly what the Soldiers saw as he stood still.

It was faint. Klbkch had to listen hard, to pick up on the signals being conveyed from the Soldiers on guard duty at the Hive’s entrance. Their thoughts were an open book to him, of course, but a distant book, on a bookshelf fifteen feet away with that tiny writing that was so obnoxious.

“…No. No assault. Someone has sent a message through the Hive. They are requesting my presence. It is not an emergency.”

It was just that the Soldiers reacted to anything coming into the Hive with the utmost paranoia, as they should. Anand relaxed. Klbkch began walking.

“I will attend to it. Return to your duties.”

“Yes, Revalantor…”

Klbkch didn’t hear the rest. He walked down the tunnel, and then up a sloping intersection, past Workers and Soldiers, who all paused and stood aside to let him through. The Hive moved like a machine, but Klbkch was an anomaly in the perfect, organized motion.

And yet, he was an integral part of the Hive too. He glanced from side to side, picking up the thoughts of all the Workers and Soldiers he passed. Their direction and actions were easy to read. And ensuring that he didn’t hear any stray thoughts, any hints of violence or…insanity, was his job. Klbkch ‘heard’ nothing out of the ordinary. And then—

The sky.

The thought paused Klbkch straight in his tracks. The image that flickered through his head was faint—one thought among hundreds nearby. But it was a burst of color, emotion, so vibrant among the other mechanical instructions that it was impossible to miss. Klbkch’s head turned, and he found the sender.

A Painted Soldier. The Antinium was marching along, perhaps to consume nutrients, or to sleep. The Soldier was not walking with his unit, as Soldiers always did. He had little blue dots drawn all over his carapace, the armor of his body. Klbkch stared at him for a second. Then the Revalantor kept moving.

Painted Antinium. Their thoughts stood out from the others. Once, Klbkch would have followed that Soldier, taken him away from the other Antinium and beheaded him with a cut from one of the silvery blades he carried if the Soldier failed his test. And if he had not, Klbkch would still have watched that Soldier like a hawk, hoping that the Soldier was something else. Something new.

Emotion, thought—they were signs of Aberration, or hints of Individuality. Either one made the Soldier precious. Once, such a way of thinking would have made that Soldier rarer than diamonds. Although that was a poor comparison, because diamonds were useless and worthless in the Hive. Klbkch had ordered the Workers to stop throwing them away or using them to pack the walls with stones, though; apparently, they had value as commodities.

Yes, half a year ago, that Painted Soldier would have consumed Klbkch’s thoughts and his day. Now, Klbkch just kept heading to the surface.

“Once.”

The Painted Soldier’s head turned as he heard Klbkch’s faint voice. He halted; the other Workers and Soldiers paused, heads straight, hesitating with indecision. Klbkch met the Painted Soldier’s gaze.

“Nothing. Carry on.”

The other Workers and Soldiers moved forwards smoothly, never looking back. The Painted Soldier hesitated. He gazed at Klbkch and then ducked his head. Shy? Afraid? Embarrassed? Klbkch didn’t bother reaching for the Painted Soldier’s thoughts. He didn’t care to know.

The Soldier with blue dots continued walking, and Klbkch watched him go. Even now, the Painted Soldier was valuable. More valuable than a hundred Soldiers like him. Because he was something new. An Individual. But he was not what Klbkch had hoped for.

Once. Once, he would have known what was happening above in detail as it happened. Once, Klbkch wouldn’t have had to strain to read the thoughts of the Antinium around him. He could have reached out and known what a Worker walking ten miles away from him was thinking, what the Antinium was seeing, sensing, whether it was injured or hungry—everything and anything, as if that Worker and Klbkch were the same. And the Workers and Soldiers would have known Klbkch’s thoughts. But those days were past. And they might never come again.

“More Antinium are coming. The Hives will reunite. There is hope. Especially if the other Queens will take inspiration. If more Individuals appear, then we will have an irregular force. Prognugator-level leaders. If nothing else.”

Klbkch spoke as he ascended through the maze of tunnels. The Painted Soldiers, the new Individual Workers, and the leaders like Anand, Pawn, and the others were extremely valuable. Not what Klbkch or the Free Queen had envisioned, but valuable nonetheless. Change was coming to Liscor. It was just that he still remembered what had been, and if you had seen perfection, how could you ever admire anything short of that?

That was how Klbkch lived. How he lived almost every day, in fact. Caught between maintaining the Hive, remembering the past, thinking of the distant, possibly unobtainable future, and being surprised by how his Hive had changed almost without him knowing.

He did not dream of the future, and he seldom slept. He had a job to do, and he did it with every hour he spent awake. He was driven, a perfect example of what was Antinium surrounded by fake copies. Klbkch walked and remembered.

Once, they had been better.



——



Selys Shivertail peered into the Hive and shivered, true to her last name. It was a full-body shiver that had nothing to do with cold; the dark tunnel leading downwards was purely ominous. And worse, Selys could see the half-hidden shapes of the Soldiers waiting in their alcoves. The Drake danced from foot to foot nervously, then looked at the Drake beside her.

“I’m going to wet myself if one of them so much as moves. Can’t we stand further back?”

The Drake standing next to her with light blue scales, a very fit figure, and a more muscular, yet shorter and less curved tail than Selys’ turned her head. Watch Captain Zevara shook her head after a moment’s pause and resumed staring into the Hive.

“They won’t attack so long as we don’t go down into the tunnel. Even if you slip, you’ll be fine. And if you need to pee, do it over there.”

She shooed Selys over to the side. Selys bit her tongue at Zevara’s dismissive tone. But she was also embarrassed. The [Receptionist] turned [Heiress] squared her shoulders a touch indignantly.

“You’ve done this all the time then? It’s my first time looking into the Hive.”

“Really? I have to talk with Klbkch often. This is how we do it.”

Selys remembered Zevara walking a few feet into the Hive and calling out for Klbkch as the Soldiers moved to block the way. That had been a moment she was going to remember in her nightmares. Yes, the Soldiers were part of Liscor. And yes, Selys even knew some Antinium like Pawn and liked them. Still, the sight of a dozen huge shapes stepping out of the walls with all four fists raised, ready to kill—

“Uh—so. What do you do on your days off, Zevara? I’ve never really seen you outside of work. Not that I really see you around. Do you, um, dance? In bars? There’s this really good one that I went to the other day. It’s this troupe at Wishdrinks. They play really well. Have you been to Wishdrinks…?”

The Watch Captain turned her head slightly and gave Selys a fish eye glance.

Shut up, Selys, you’re embarrassing yourself! The younger Drake closed her mouth. She was still an adult, even if Zevara had nearly a decade on her, but she felt like a hatchling. After a second, Zevara shrugged slightly.

“I don’t do much off-duty. Watch Captains have to work all hours. You know that.”

“Right, right.”

Silence. After a second, Zevara checked her posture.

“…I tend to drink at bars where most of the City Watch goes when they’re off-duty. Other than that? I might read a book. Clean my apartment. Sometimes I pay for a mage-show, or go to an event with some of the Senior Guardsmen. Wishdrinks is out of my budget most of the time, though. I’ve never actually gone, just planned on it and that was a disaster.”

“Oh! Me too. I mean, it was. Until I, uh, earned some money. You should join me sometime. I’m sure my friends would be delighted to meet you.”

“Hm. Perhaps. I wouldn’t want to spoil the atmosphere. A Watch Captain tends to drag down a night’s entertainment.”

“Ah…”

More silence. The two Drakes looked at each other. Selys hesitated.

“Maybe with Erin?”

“The H—Erin Solstice?”

“She’s been visiting Pallass a lot, but she’s always interested in new experiences. And she’s impossible to bother, as far as I’ve seen. Maybe with her, Lyonette, Drassi—”

Zevara winced with each progressive name. Selys bit her tongue again. The Watch Captain eyed her again and sighed.

“Perhaps. It’s not that I mind her too much, you understand? But she causes trouble. Why not, though? Let me know and I’ll see if my schedule lines up. The, er, thief girl’s actually pleasant to be around these days. And your chatterbox friend isn’t bad either.”

Selys blinked.

“You know Drassi?”

“Doesn’t everyone?”

“True. But she knows you?”

Zevara almost smiled. She uncrossed her folded arms, which appeared to be her default stance.

“I’ve met her on patrol. Even before I was Watch Captain. And she is one of Liscor’s finest [Gossips]. Even when she was a little brat—er, hatchling, running about the streets, she’d talk my ear off while I was on duty. I had to deal with eleven noise complaints involving her.”

“I had no idea.”

Tickled, Selys grinned. She saw a smile flash across Zevara’s face. The two Drakes looked at each other, and then caught themselves. Zevara cleared her throat, and Selys coughed.

“We haven’t talked much.”

“No. We have not.”

It was an odd pairing. Selys was a [Receptionist], a no-name grunt in a standard job. Admittedly, her grandmother was head of the Adventurer’s Guild and Selys worked there, but Zevara was a Watch Captain. One of the most important people in Liscor outside of the army. Neither had exchanged many words before, and certainly, Zevara hadn’t known Selys personally.

But here they were. Standing in front of the Hive. And they were also collaborators in a huge project that might change Liscor forever. Krshia, Selys, and Zevara were part of an alliance to force an election for Liscor’s council. But they needed help. And as if thinking that had summoned him, a shape appeared in the dark tunnel and marched up it.

For a moment, Selys was uneasy. But she relaxed as soon as she saw the familiar, even friendly form of the one Antinium everyone in Liscor knew. Senior Guardsman Klbkch, the dependable partner of Relc and popular member of the Watch, appeared out of the Hive. And only when Selys looked at him in this context did she remember that he was also Revalantor Klbkch, the Slayer of the Antinium Wars. But Liscor had grown used to Klbkch’s face, and the Antinium’s precise voice was even pleasant to hear as he nodded to both Drakes.

“Ah. Watch Captain Zevara. Miss Selys. I apologize for the delay. I was at work. How may I help you?”

Zevara coughed, and a tiny plume of smoke escaped her mouth.

“Klbkch. Sorry to call you out before your shift starts. I was hoping I could speak with you with Selys here. I’m off-duty, but this matter concerns the Antinium. And the Watch.”

Klbkch’s head turned for a second to Selys. He paused and then nodded.

“Certainly. The Hive is not a suitable place for casual conversation. May I recommend a nearby bar?”

Both Drakes nodded, so Klbkch indicated the left street, and they walked past the opening to the Hive. Drakes and Gnolls used this street; the Hive’s entrance, an area of excavated dirt, was an anomaly in the road. The area around it had been cleared of buildings, but the hustle and bustle of Liscor resumed barely a dozen feet from the entrance. Klbkch led Zevara into the first tavern he came to. Instantly, a Drake [Server] came up.

“Watch Captain Zevara? Senior Guardsman Klbkch? And…”

He frowned at Selys.

“Are you General Shivertail’s—no, Guildmistress Tekshia’s—”

He bit his tongue.

“Er, how can I help you all? Is this a Watch matter? The owner’s out, so if it is…”

He looked nervous, as well he might. Zevara coughed again and shook her head.

“Not Watch business. We’re all off-duty. Could we have a private table to talk?”

“Of course!”

Much relieved, the [Server] immediately ushered the party to a table closer to the back. Selys realized that her face along with Klbkch’s and Zevara’s attracted immediate attention from the patrons in the morning crowd. But Klbkch was received with neutrality at the worst—some people even waved to him. Selys got stares, which was new and possibly relating to her most recent Skill; it was only Zevara who made anyone with a guilty conscience hunch up.

“What’ll it be? We’ve got a Dwarven brandy on tap. Very strong stuff, although not as potent as good Drake spirits, of course.”

“Of course.”

Selys and Zevara chorused with straight faces. Zevara shrugged.

“I’ll have that brandy for a taste. Get me a mug of water too to go with it. Selys?”

“Uh…yeah, that sounds good! Water too, please. Klbkch? Order anything you want. It’s on me.”

Lamely, Selys copied Zevara. Klbkch glanced up at the chalk writing on a board above the bar.

“I will have a mulled wine. Thank you.”

The [Server] disappeared and came back with three containers filled to the brim. Selys accepted her mug and sipped from the heady, sweet liquid. It was certainly strong, and Selys was glad she’d gotten water with Zevara. She decided she liked it, and waved a claw.

“Do you have snacks?”

“Of course! We’ve got some nuts, some Gnoll, uh, silkap, and french fries. Hot! With that katsup stuff.”

“Ketchup.”

The [Server] blinked. Then he eyed Selys.

“Right. You know that [Innkeeper] who made it. Ours is good! You want salt?”

“I’ll take the nuts, actually. Can we get two bowls?”

“Sure, sure. You wouldn’t happen to know how that white stuff is made?”

“Mayonnaise? No idea, sorry.”

“Well, I tried. Tell my boss that if he rips off my tail.”

The [Server] disappeared again. Selys looked at Klbkch. He was sipping from his drink and exchanging polite conversation with Zevara.

“And you stopped Relc from beating the [Thieves] into the ground? Thanks, Klbkch. I don’t mind the bruises, but we have to fix broken bones.”

“It is part of my job, Watch Captain. Moderate bodily harm is appropriate under our code of conduct.”

“Tell Relc that. If he weren’t so useful, I would have kicked him out of the Watch years ago. As it is, I think he can be put to better use. Although he does keep [Thieves] off the streets for a few days after he catches one…”

Zevara sighed. She leaned back, sipping her drink, and popped a few walnuts into her mouth as they arrived in a bowl. She nodded, burped a small gout of flame, and, to Selys’ delight, blushed.

“Sorry. Flame breath. Happens sometimes. Duck if I sneeze. Klbkch, mind if I cut to the chase?”

“I believe we have done an appropriate amount of socializing, yes, Watch Captain. What is the issue you would like to discuss with me?”

Selys edged closer to their booth table. Zevara leaned forwards as well, and Selys studied Klbkch. He was someone she hadn’t really known before Erin either. Oh, she saw him around, but like Zevara, he wasn’t someone she’d ever imagined she would have been friends with, or talked to as an equal. A coconspirator. A…partner? She looked at Zevara, and the Watch Captain nodded. They’d agreed to let her do the talking. Selys was just here to help with the negotiations. And Krshia?

She was hard at work selling the idea to Liscor. Zevara leaned forwards, bracing herself with an arm on the table.

“Alright, Klbkch. Here’s the details. You’re aware that the Council is changing seats this month? Well, Krshia and Selys approached me two days ago with a plan that involves changing how the Council forms itself…”



——



The pitch was short. Zevara finished explaining the concept before her mug had half-emptied, with Selys adding in a few details. But its effect on Klbkch was anything but trivial.

The Antinium sat back at his table. The mulled wine in his cup he’d ordered to be sociable was untouched. Klbkch blinked down at it, realized he’d forgotten to drink, and downed the entire cup while he thought. Zevara and Selys stared at Klbkch as he calmly put down his empty cup. Alcohol had a limited effect on Antinium, as did most poisons.

“One Council member per district. I see. And your assumption is that Krshia Silverfang would win in her area?”

The two exchanged a look. And now Klbkch saw how they were clearly allied. Selys nodded.

“Yeah. That’s what we’re proposing. But we have to get the Council to allow an election to go forwards. But if it does—Krshia’s really popular among Gnolls. There’s nearly one Gnoll for every three Drakes where Krshia lives. That’s higher than most other districts of the city. If they all turn out to vote for her, she’s already got a huge lead.”

“And your proposal would strengthen the Adventurer’s Guild, City Watch, and provide much needed relief to a number of societal issues. Assuming the election takes place.”

That was the uncertain variable as Klbkch understood it. Zevara cleared her throat again and took a sip of water.

“Krshia’s tweaking the Council’s tails right now. We’re here to convince you to lend the Antinium’s support to this election proposal. Krshia’s plan is a good one. We get funding to all the areas that the current Council has failed to support. Only…”

She trailed off delicately. Klbkch nodded. He’d been doing internal calculations as Selys described all the way Liscor’s funds would be allocated. And Klbkch knew how much money Liscor was able to spend annually.

Even with Krshia’s proposed tax, the city lacked enough the resources to double the City Watch’s budget, expand the walls, and retrofit the Adventurer’s Guild. Doubtless all three projects would bring money to Liscor, but how did you borrow money against the future? The Merchant’s Guild? They had a very punitive system of borrowing and lending as Klbkch understood it. And so…his mind flickered to the inevitable conclusion as Selys spoke.

“We’d like the Antinium’s support for Krshia’s idea. If you agreed to even offer us a discount on construction, Liscor would be able to afford everything. What do you say, Klbkch?”

The Antinium did not immediately reply. He paused, staring at Zevara and Selys.

“I understand these projects would be beneficial for Liscor. But what would the Antinium gain from spending the Hive’s resources for the city?”

It was not a malicious question. Klbkch suspected he knew the answer, but he had to feign ignorance. Zevara took another breath. She was nervous; he could see her claws gripping the table, even if her tail was still.

“Klbkch. I’m putting my position as Watch Captain on the line by opening up elections. The Council could well decide to replace me. But if, if Krshia wins, I keep my job. Which means more powers to the Watch. And with someone on the Council and in the Watch Captain’s office, they can renegotiate some of the terms of the Antinium’s deal with Liscor.”

She looked meaningfully at Klbkch. He nodded. Oh yes. But how much was she willing to allow?

“Go on, Watch Captain. What did you have in mind?”

“I’ll petition the Council to allow Antinium to serve as members of the Watch. We could bring as many as a hundred Soldiers onto the walls or swear in those patrols as formal members of the City Watch. They’ll be full [Guardsmen]. Like you, Klbkch. That’s what I can offer.”

Zevara folded her claws together. She met Klbkch’s gaze. And he detected the nerves in Selys’ twitching tail as well. They wanted this.

“We can offer something else too, Klbkch. Not gold. But…we could give some Antinium formal citizenship. Like Pawn. He wouldn’t be allowed to travel to other Drake cities, I’m sure, but it would be a first. Or we could…I don’t know. What do you think?”

Again, Klbkch didn’t immediately reply. He looked from face to face at the two female Drakes and paused. His mind was…not whirling. It was doing the exact opposite of whirling, in fact. Klbkch existed in a cold, calm place, and the thoughts that passed through his mind were unaffiliated with the chaos of emotion. But he did like what he thought.

A seat on the Council? Watch Captain Zevara was offering to expand the Antinium’s role in the City Watch? This was everything he had ever wanted. And more. Klbkch calmed himself.

No, he couldn’t offer too much. What was appropriate? Reluctantly, or rather, feigning the emotion, Klbkch opened his mandibles.

“I suppose the Hive could agree to a very lenient building contract with Liscor. The Antinium are certainly capable of mass construction, although sourcing the stone will be an issue. As will constructing such a huge area. The Hive’s Worker population may be unable to handle the entirety of the task themselves, you understand?”

The two nodded hurriedly. Klbkch nodded as well, though that was a barefaced lie. He could pull two thousand Workers out of the Hive to begin construction tomorrow if need be. And he would. Selys hurriedly spoke up.

“Stone can be quarried. We have the High Passes around here; there are some good sources of stone, or so Krshia claims. But the Antinium being willing to help pay for the costs is the thing. Would—your Queen be willing to do so?”

“I would need to consult with her. I believe she would be extremely reluctant to part with the Hive’s resources for the city, despite our mutual alliance. However—I am sure I could offer Liscor appropriate aid. Yes. If the Hive were to fund…twenty percent of all the costs of construction and offer our Workers at a largely discounted rate, would that be sufficient? I can also say with authority that the Hive could contribute t—two thousand gold pieces to additional funds for the City Watch and Adventurer’s Guild. Annually?”

Klbkch watched Selys and Zevara’s faces closely. Both of them gasped.

“Two thousand gold a year?”

“Twenty percent?”

Klbkch was relieved he hadn’t said twenty thousand gold pieces. He clicked his mandibles softly.

“Ah. The Hive does have a surplus of funds at the moment. We could, of course, offer something more. But I am afraid that the Hive’s expenditures have to be taken into account. If this is unacceptable…”

“No, no. It’s wonderful! If it were ten percent, and you only discounted the price of construction—Krshia is going to be ecstatic when she hears this!”

Selys beamed as she looked at Zevara. Klbkch nodded. Now, carefully, carefully…he held up a finger.

“There are a few conditions, however. I am afraid that my Queen would never accept the Antinium expanding their role in the City Watch as an equitable trade, even as allies.”

Zevara’s head swung back to Klbkch.

“She wouldn’t? I mean, why not?”

“She does not see my role as Senior Guardsman as particularly important to the Hive. I am in favor of expanding the Antinium’s role in the Watch, but I would have to convince my Queen of the necessity.”

Klbkch shrugged his shoulders delicately. He watched Selys’ face sink. Zevara, on the other hand, was sharper.

“Did you have something else in mind then, Klbkch? Krshia’s said she’s willing to offer the Antinium what she can. But what is it you’d like?”

“Hm. Would you allow me a moment’s thought?”

The two nodded. Klbkch pretended to think. Then, carefully, he spoke.

“If the city is to expand, then perhaps allowing the Hive to expand with the city would be appropriate? We are, currently, bound by a treaty to the size of our Hive’s dimensions, which must be largely constrained to the area under the city, with auxiliary tunnels, of course.”

Tunnels that extended all the way to Liscor’s dungeon. Zevara was nodding warily. Klbkch went on.

“Allowing the Hive to grow to match Liscor’s area of expansion would be beneficial. As we could use the new area for storage and water runoff tunnels. As would a few diplomatic rights in accordance to the ones Miss Selys proposed.”

Klbkch nodded to Selys. She blinked.

“What rights?”

The Antinium steepled his hands together delicately.

“I would like to allow more Antinium from other Hives to visit Liscor. In an official, diplomatic capacity.”

“What?”

Zevara half-rose from her chair. Selys’ jaw fell open. Klbkch glanced behind the two, but no one else seemed to have heard. He twitched his antennas and looked innocently at the other two.

“Is this an unacceptable term, Watch Captain Zevara? We have had Antinium visitors to Liscor from other Hives before.”

“Of course, but—well, you mean officially? On a regular basis?”

The Watch Captain ran a claw through her neck spines. Klbkch nodded again.

“Yes. Perhaps there might be a limit on the number of Antinium allowed to visit. Say, fifty at most? But they would be accorded free passage to and from Liscor and while about the city and its environs.”

“What for? To see the sights? Purchase gifts? I had no idea the Antinium travelled.”

Zevara looked at Klbkch. He saw a flicker of suspicion cross her brow. She was, after all, a Watch Captain of her city. Klbkch was sure the Drake cities had a number of orders in place about his Hive. He thought quickly and put his hands flat on the table.

“If I may be blunt, Watch Captain Zevara? I will speak to you not as Senior Guardsman Klbkch, but in my role as Revalantor. In which I maintain a superior rank to you or any Watch Captain.”

The Drake opened her mouth and closed it, looking perplexed. Klbkch spoke over whatever she might have said.

“The other Hives do not possess the same level of understanding of Drake and Gnoll culture that the Free Antinium do. Nor do they wish to. Their attitude is…antagonistic. And they will go to war in time, given a sufficient opportunity. I am sure that Liscor and the other cities know this full well.”

Selys and Zevara fell silent. Zevara nodded tightly as the casual attitude at the table disappeared. But Klbkch had calculated the risk. He went on.

“The Free Antinium’s split from the other Hives was in part due to our understanding that war was not necessary for mutual growth. My Queen and I did not desire a third Incursion War. Nor, I think, does Liscor. Hence our pact and our attempts to establish friendlier relations.”

“Really? It was that profound a difference?”

Zevara muttered, and then caught herself. She nodded slowly.

“We see eye-to-eye in that at least, Klbkch. Ever since the Second Antinium War when the Antinium helped fight the Necromancer off—so you’re saying the other Hives don’t share any of your Hive’s views? The Free Antinium, you said? As opposed to…?”

She was fishing. And even Selys could tell that, from the way she glanced sideways at her companion. But that was fine; Klbkch was willing to give any number of details away. He pretended it was an innocuous statement.

“As opposed to the Armored Antinium or the Silent Antinium, yes. Excuse me. I am aware your people do not differentiate between our Hives. Yes. The ideological rift between our Hives is somewhat considerable. Hence my proposal to allow other Antinium into the city. One group has already come to witness the benefits of mutual cooperation between the Hive and Drake cities.”

“Really.”

Zevara’s tail twitched. Klbkch had no doubt this was all going down into a report. He nodded, mixing fact with fiction. And mostly fact, to be honest.

“There will be Prognugators among those I invite to the cities. They are to the Hives what Watch Captains are to Drake Cities. These individuals alone may sway their Queens. They must come here and know that Drakes are not a single-minded enemy who will show the Antinium no quarter.”

This time, the Watch Captain’s lips twitched.

“The Antinium think we’re a single-minded foe incapable of diplomacy?”

Zevara’s face told Klbkch she was unsure of whether or not to be proud. That was unexpected, but Klbkch capitalized on the emotion. He nodded slowly and deliberately.

“The Antinium learn slowly in some regards. And you must understand, Watch Captain, we did not sweep through Izril as planned. The Drakes are a formidable foe, as are the Gnolls. And our perspective is colored. Recall that before the Antinium ever came to Izril, our only contact with a surface species were the people of Rhir. We had…many, many years of conflict with them.”

“Trust the Blighted Kingdom to attack first and never try for diplomacy ever.”

The Watch Captain looked amused. Klbkch nodded.

“They are the more belligerent of the two peoples I mentioned, yes, Watch Captain. But you understand my point, I trust. The Antinium can learn. And allowing more representatives of other Hives into the city may lead to an alternative to war.”

“Yes. Yes. But…”

Zevara’s eyes were flickering rapidly. She glanced up, meeting Klbkch’s multi-faceted eyes for a while.

“So allowing Antinium visitors would benefit Liscor greatly, wouldn’t it, Klbkch? That’s generous of you.”

She was suspicious. Klbkch spread his hands on the table.

“It would facilitate a number of advantages for my Queen. Having the rights to allow Antinium visitors from other Hives would be a right she possessed that the other Queens lack. This matters to the Antinium. I am unsure if I can explain the nuance.”

“No, I get it.”

Zevara grinned tightly. She drummed her claws on the table. Restlessly, she pushed back her chair a bit.

“So that’s the offer? Allow the Hive to expand past our original borders and give Antinium the right to enter the city? And allow more on the streets, I suppose? In exchange for Antinium construction aid and money for the Watch and Adventurer’s Guild.”

“It may be possible to negotiate some of the terms, but yes, Watch Captain. I think that is the least my Queen would take.”

Klbkch was lying. He would gladly take either offer and offer twice what he’d just given Zevara. Just to have Krshia Silverfang on the Council would be a boon worth twenty thousand gold pieces in itself. But he pretended to be conflicted.

Zevara didn’t need to pretend. She stood up and turned to Selys.

“I…need to think about this. Give me a moment?”

“Of course. Uh…we’ll be here. Klbkch, another drink?”

Selys smiled, baring her teeth uncertainly. Zevara nodded. She looked at Klbkch.

“I’m sorry. But I can’t be sure I can agree to any of this. I know you, Klbkch. But I am a Watch Captain and…give me five minutes? Ten?”

“Only naturally. I will have the brandy, Miss Selys. If that is acceptable?”

Klbkch reached for the nuts. He’d done the best he could. Selys was clearly nervous, but to her and Zevara, Klbkch appeared calm. But that was because neither of them had learned to read Antinium expressions, like Erin, Lyonette, and, come to it, Relc. Klbkch was maintaining a good façade, but internally he was intent, urging Zevara to agree with every fiber of his being.

And more than that. Klbkch watched as Zevara walked out of the tavern. Silently, he activated his Skill. Or rather, he activated it again.

There were a number of classes that Klbkch possessed that no one knew he had. Not even his Queen. [Guardsman], [Sword Slayer], these were only the ones everyone knew. But Klbkch possessed a number of tertiary classes. Unfortunately, he had come to understand that these classes were inhibiting him from leveling from his conversation with Ryoka. But they did come in useful, particularly one of his classes. [Diplomat].

The idea of an Antinium [Diplomat] was a joke anywhere in the world. What did the Antinium need to negotiate? And—everyone knew they barely leveled up. Why would they specialize in that? So those people thought, and they were all fools. Because the best [Diplomat] was one you never saw coming. And Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, had that class.

He’d told Ryoka that. It might be a drain on his levels, but he was a Level 11 [Diplomat]. And he had one Skill from that class he used all the time. Every day, in fact. He had used it on Erin Solstice. He was a master of it.

[Reassuring Presence]. That was all. A Level 10 Skill, and hardly a powerful one. But for Klbkch, it was a mighty Skill. Because what was an Antinium? An enemy. And he, Klbkch the Slayer, was a known villain to the Drakes. But with one Skill, he could influence those around him to give him a chance.

To reevaluate him and think twice. And he had used that Skill for ten years. Perhaps all of his reputation in Liscor was the product of the Skill. Perhaps it had little effect other than smoothing his entry into the city. But Klbkch used it. And no one had any idea.

Of such secrets was the world made. Klbkch waited, talking a bit with Selys, but the female Drake was too nervous to make much conversation. Klbkch saw Zevara come back eight minutes later. The Watch Captain sat down and spoke abruptly.

“Okay. I agree.”

Selys let out a huge breath. Klbkch exhaled silently. But internally he was as happy as he had ever been.

Success. Zevara met Klbkch’s eyes squarely.

“I’m in, Klbkch. For what the Antinium are offering? Well, if you could increase the amount you’re giving to the city, especially the Watch—we’ll sort out the details. But I can try to get you both an expansion on your Hive’s limits and the right to allow other Antinium into the city. But I’m warning you, Klbkch. It’s going to be tricky. Even if Krshia could swing the Council, this is bigger than I am. Krshia will say the same thing. We can try to get you both deals, but neither she nor I can guarantee it, even if we win the election.”

If Krshia and Zevara won, Klbkch would consider that a victory in itself. He nodded calmly and took a sip from his new mug.

“Allowing the Antinium more autonomy aboveground and giving the Hive a construction project of this magnitude is a sufficient promise for now. If you promise to advocate for open borders with the Hives, I will take it on…faith, Captain Zevara. Miss Selys.”

And if Liscor refuses, the other Prognugators will simply have to keep their presence hidden in the Hive. They can be smuggled to Erin’s inn some other way. And Gnolls on the Council might well moderate their views. At the very least, Krshia Silverfang was friends with Erin Solstice. Any way you looked at it, a victory for Krshia meant that the Antinium won.

“I’ll tell Krshia at once. She’ll be ecstatic. She’s already outlining her proposal—with this, she can plan out even more! We could expand the city a huge amount! If the Council has the money. Ancestors, I’ll pay for a few streets if it means we can deal with the overcrowding and the rent!”

Selys excitedly got to her feet. Zevara did likewise. She hesitated and held out a claw.

“So it’s a deal, Klbkch?”

“The Antinium will support Krshia Silverfang, Watch Captain. To the utmost of our ability. This strengthens Liscor.”

Klbkch shook Zevara’s hand firmly. He paused as they headed to the door; Selys had left a two-gold coin tip, which made the [Server]’s eyes pop.

“Watch Captain. It occurs to me there is another small concession I would like to request.”

Zevara turned at the door, again wary.

“Go on.”

“I would also like to formally request that the number of allowed Soldiers for my Hive be increased from six hundred?”

The Antinium stared innocuously at Zevara. The Drake paused. Her lips twitched, and she gave Klbkch a raised brow.

“Of course, I’ll take that into consideration.”

She left Klbkch there, with promises to have Krshia meet with him that very night. Klbkch looked forwards to it; he was already calculating how much gold he could be persuaded into giving Krshia’s cause. How much was suspicious or too much? Ten thousand? Eight thousand per year?

He would be circumspect. But the Hive would be generous, ‘unknowingly’ if need be. The Antinium were not thought to have a strong grasp of economics, a fact Klbkch had played up his first years working with Relc. The truth was that Klbkch agreed with everything Krshia had proposed. What strengthened Liscor strengthened the Free Antinium. And more.

Krshia Silverfang on the Council. Selys Shivertail and Zevara were helping her. It was a combination of individuals that Klbkch had never anticipated. But it came together because Krshia was important, at least among the Gnolls. Zevara was a Watch Captain, so that fit. And Selys had inherited…

The Heartflame Armor. Yes, now it belonged to Selys. And Zel Shivertail was dead. So many developments in favor of the Antinium, not that Zel Shivertail’s death was necessarily one such. All thanks to one person? No. Thanks to another world.

Thanks to Erin Solstice. The Antinium of Liscor had been struggling until she had come here, trying to make Individuals and instead creating Aberrations. She had done so much for the Hive. Klbkch was sure that this latest development was in some way related to her, or simply an effect of her coming from her world.

Another world. What other effects might Erin and Ryoka be having on this world? What if there were more of their people? How would that affect the continents, the countless nations? The Antinium themselves?

That was impossible for Klbkch to imagine. But he would speculate with Xrn. She could be trusted. And perhaps his Queen, although Klbkch feared she could not be trusted. Not with this. She was brave, and she had risen to every occasion. But this was something only the First Queen would have been able to understand fully.

For now, this election. Klbkch walked through the streets. And now he was aboveground, he noticed the disciplined chaos in the city, something he would only have picked up on with his evening patrol duties with Relc. Klbkch watched. He listened to Krshia speaking at her stall, and he saw Selys hurrying up to the Gnoll.

Yes. Krshia had to win the election. And the election had to occur. That was the new priority of the day. He walked back to the Hive. And on the way, he noticed more things that gave him pause. Among them was Lism arguing in front of the Mage’s Guild. Screaming, rather. At Wing Commander Embria.

Klbkch walked back towards his Hive, thinking carefully. Now he was analyzing the situation, Zevara and Selys’ confidence in the surety of Krshia’s victory wasn’t something he shared. He was already anticipating what would follow. In his way, he understood more of Drake politics than either Zevara or Selys.

But that was fine. Klbkch stopped at the entrance of the Hive and descended slowly. The Soldiers waiting at the entrance let him past, their thoughts alert, watchful. Klbkch cast his own thoughts downwards and spoke. An auditory component helped reinforce the clarity of the signal, or so he’d found.

“My Queen. I have an opportunity for you. If you are ready.”

He listened for the response, and his mandibles rose in a smile. Yes. Krshia’s small party had come to him seeking a trade. But they were looking at it like Drakes. Or how a Gnoll [Shopkeeper] might. They thought of things in give and take. The Antinium did not. What benefitted the Hive was all. Krshia was beneficial to the Hive. Zevara had promised something Klbkch wanted, so he would put the full weight of the Free Antinium behind them. Or just one Antinium. Sometimes that was all you needed. Klbkch descended, speaking to his Queen.

“We await the right moment, then, my Queen. If you will prepare, I will signal the moment. Wait. This ‘election’ may be won without uncertainty, in which case there is no need. If not—is he able to move?”

Of course.

Klbkch smiled. And he thought of how this would change events above and below. Klbkch waited for the moment to change everything he could. And if Pawn didn’t cheer up after this, Klbkch would seriously consider dumping him at Erin’s inn and leaving him there.

…He wondered if Erin was selling Acid Flies yet.



——



Deep in the Hive, Pawn knelt. He clasped his four arms together and prayed. It was a simple prayer.

“Please let my people stop suffering. Let there be peace. Let there be Heaven. And let us build it if none such exists. Only give us the chance. Give us any chance. And let there be peace. Amen.”

It was a poor prayer. One without the—the graciousness of words, the elegance that Pawn wished he could have. But it came from the heart. And that was all Pawn had. His heart, which beat painfully in his chest.

He rose. And in the darkness, hundreds of bodies rose with him. Painted Soldiers, their bodies dabbed with bright colors, stood. They looked at Pawn. And he looked across their heads.

Each one was different. Each one was unique. Though their bodies were the same, they were as individual as could be. Even other species were less unique. For what separated two Humans? A difference in height? Different bones, or skin color? The quality of their voice?

Those were uncertain variables. But this? This was different. Each Soldier’s carapace was decorated. They each bore a symbol of who they were, and they could reapply that proof whenever they needed to. They had chosen who they were.

The Painted Soldiers. The Individuals of the Hive. Pawn’s flock. That’s what Erin had called them. But if they were his flock, he was a poor [Shepherd]. And he was tired. And so, so very sad.

“Thank you.”

Pawn spoke simply. The large chamber in which he stood was both the Painted Soldier’s barracks for sleeping as well as their break hall. And home. And memorial. On the walls covered with the signs of fallen Soldiers were spaces dedicated to reading. Small, children’s picture books shared space next to boards that were extra-large to allow Soldiers to play chess or Go together. There was a spot to sit on fluffy, comfy blankets and pillows, always in high demand. Even a spot to paint.

But the Soldiers had stopped their tasks to kneel or sit in front of Pawn. For his morning prayer. He offered two a day. Morning and night. Not all of the Soldiers could be present; even now, some fought or guarded parts of the Hive. But all who could come came, and they listened. So Pawn tried to pray as best he could. He never repeated himself. And he tried to be short.

It was inadequate. But with so many expectant faces, Pawn could never do nothing. So now he raised the stick on which hung the censer and waved it. The fragrance of cinnamon hung in the air as Pawn walked past the Soldiers. He hadn’t lit it, but the censer still smelled of the wonderful, sweet scent.

“Go in peace. Go, thinking of peace. You may go. Thank you. Thank you…”

The Soldiers waited until Pawn was past them to move. Slowly, they filed past him, returning to their lives. And they looked at Pawn as he walked slowly past him. He was an [Acolyte]. The only one of his kind. And he felt like a fraud. But he kept walking until he reached the end of the cavern. Then he let the Soldiers get back to work. And he sat.

It had been weeks since Yellow Splatters had died. Since the hundred fell at Liscor. Pawn knew he should do something. Erin had come to see him. And he had duties. But he couldn’t find the strength to do any of it.

They had died around him. Shielding him from the Goblin Lord’s magic. And they had died because he asked them to save her. And they had. Erin Solstice lived. And that was one of the reasons Pawn lived. But they had all died for her.

Yellow Splatters. Pawn bowed his head and wished an Antinium could weep. But he made no sound. Because the Soldiers were walking around, enjoying being alive. Enjoying their time off that they were given as Painted Soldiers. And looking at him. So Pawn sat. He made no sound, though he would have wailed. He ate when it was time to eat, and he slept when it was time to sleep. He prayed, and he spoke. Because he could not abandon these Soldiers to his despair as he had so selfishly before. They were all he had left.

Him. And Purple Smile. The [Sergeant] came over to Pawn and waved two of his arms. The peculiar Soldier raised his purple-colored mandibles in a smile. And Pawn tried to copy it.

“Hello Purple Smile. Is it time to eat?”

The [Sergeant] shrugged. He stared at Pawn and then sat next to him. That was his way. As any Soldier, Purple Smile couldn’t speak, but his hands did the talking. Thumbs-up, a walking hand, another thumb, a pointing finger—his crude, Soldier’s fingers on his four hands constructed a message.

“Thank you. It was a good prayer? And…I should go for a walk?”

Nod. Pawn looked at Purple Smile’s finger.

“The inn? Maybe later. I’m sure Erin’s busy.”

Purple Smile stared at Pawn. Both Antinium knew he was lying, or rather, avoiding saying what he meant. It was not an Antinium thing. But Purple Smile didn’t give up. Slowly, he urged Pawn up, taking the Worker’s arm as carefully as if he were clutching paper. And the Worker couldn’t very well refuse. Purple Smile had given so much. He still fought against the monsters of the dungeon. And Pawn had asked so much of the Soldiers. If they asked him anything—

“Very well. Where should I walk?”

Around. Purple Smile gestured. Pawn nodded. Slowly, he walked around the barracks. His body felt…tired. He’d been doing a lot of sitting. And remembering. Thinking, really. Thinking of how things had come to this.

Look. Look at the barracks now. They were incomparable to before. The barracks of the Painted Soldiers were now more of a wing; the tight, intersecting tunnels had been excavated as the barracks grew, becoming larger, with a more open design than any standard Antinium area. Something that reflected the architecture above, with a higher ceiling, the space to move without being cramped.

An echo of the sky. And the colors that shone from the walls were nowhere else to be found in the Hive. If Pawn had not known what this was, he would have thought he had stumbled into a magical land here. Soldiers were free to rest. And they had things to occupy themselves. Fun. Games. Things no Antinium had ever dreamed of.

They had paid a bloody price for it. Once again. Only, this time, it had cost Yellow Splatters. Cost a hundred Painted Soldiers. Was that the new equation? Was every step forward bathed in the blood of the Painted Antinium? Pawn feared it was.

Hence his despair. For what was right? It was good, beautiful that the Painted Antinium existed. But the cost—the cost they paid so willingly—Pawn wasn’t sure if his heart could bear it.

It was the argument he had had so many times in the past. And again, there would be no answer. But Pawn couldn’t avoid it. He walked past Soldiers. And then he remembered his duties and paused. He asked them what they were doing, spoke to them, and he saw that they were happy. One showed him a clay cup. Another, a picture in a well-worn book. And that was all they had ever wanted. No—they had never wanted this because they had never known it existed.

And perhaps if he had been like them, he would have been happy despite the deaths. But Pawn had dreamed of heaven. And that glorious sight was too much for a mortal mind to bear. He had heard of salvation, and he craved it. So Pawn kept walking. Until he reached one of the entrances to the barracks. And an entering Antinium nearly ran into him.

It was a near miss. Unlike the usual order of the Hive, Workers and Painted Soldiers were free to move about as they pleased. So only in this place did collisions occur. And when they did—no one got hurt. Why would they? The Antinium’s bodies were covered in shells. It was just a funny peculiarity.

This time, Pawn saw the Worker coming in a rush of other Workers. The others noticed Pawn, but this one failed to and nearly stepped into Pawn. He moved back, of course. The Worker paused and looked up. He saw Pawn and the [Acolyte]’s censer stick.

“Excuse me.”

Pawn politely stepped aside and gestured, as he had been taught to do on Liscor’s streets as a humble Worker himself. But the Worker in front of him froze.

“This one apologizes, Individual Pawn. This one is deeply sorry.”

The Worker quivered. Pawn stopped and stared at him.

“It’s nothing.”

“This one was in your way. This one humbly moves. Apologies, apologies.”

The Worker scuttled back. The other Workers in his group looked at him. And like him, they wilted.

They were the same height as Pawn. But he felt like he was looking down on them. Certainly on the Worker in front of him; the Worker was hunched, much like Pawn remembered doing when he was miserable or feared having made a mistake. The sight hurt Pawn to see.

“It’s nothing. Please. It was my fault as well. Don’t be worried.”

Pawn unconsciously reached out and patted the Worker’s shoulders with two arms as if he were a Soldier. The Worker stared.

“T-thank you.”

It was such a timid reply. And yet—the words, the tone, made Pawn think he wasn’t speaking to a regular Worker. No, of course not; if the Worker were allowed into the barracks, it meant they weren’t a regular Worker. Pawn paused. He looked at the Worker.

“What is your name, Worker? If you have a name.”

Too late, he remembered. Some workers didn’t have names. They hadn’t chosen like him. He tensed, but the Worker did not begin shaking. He did not behave as Pawn once had when Erin asked. Instead, the Worker ducked his head and replied timidly.

“This one is Archer B23.”

“Archer…B23? That is your name?”

“Yes, Individual Pawn. It was given to me by Revalantor Klbkch. It is my name.”

Pawn stared. Then he started.

“Klbkch gave you that name? I mean, Revalantor Klbkch?”

“Yes, Individual Pawn. This one passed the test and was named. This—I am Archer B23. He gave me my name along with the other Workers in Archer Unit B.”

That at least was clear. Pawn looked at the other Workers in the group. Let’s see. Twenty-four. Probably about right.

“Archer B23. Why did Klbkch give you that name?”

It was almost as bad as calling all the Workers…Workers. Archer B23 paused.

“This one does not know what Revalantor Klbkch thought. But Archer B23 is this one’s name. It is a functional name.”

Was there a touch of defiance at the skepticism in Pawn’s tone? The [Acolyte] stared at Archer B23.

“Of course it is. It’s a fine name. Forgive me. I am Pawn. You…know me?”

Archer B23 nodded. He looked up at Pawn.

“You are Individual Pawn. All the Autonomous Workers know of you.”

“Autonomous Workers?”

The title threw Pawn. Archer B23 looked around at his companions as if seeking help. Another spoke up.

“We—I—I—are Workers who have passed Revalantor Klbkch’s tests. We are Autonomous Workers, Individual Pawn. But we are not you.”

The other Workers nodded as one. They gathered around their two companions. And they looked the same. They even acted the same. But they could say ‘I’. They were…

Pawn remembered them. The other Workers playing chess in the break room back at the start. The Workers who had passed Klbkch’s tests. So this is what they had become?

They played chess. But they had never met Erin. Or if they had, it was a fleeting meeting. Not like her chess lessons. They were like Pawn had been at the start, with the other members of the chess club.

The [Acolyte] touched his chest, above his heart.

“I see. Autonomous Workers. Not Individuals. And you are all Archers?”

“Yes, Individual Pawn. I am Archer B25.”

“I am Archer B11.”

“I am Archer B3.”

“I am Archer B8.”

“I am…”

Pawn’s head turned to each Worker as they began to introduce themselves. They did so eagerly, never mind that even Mrsha would have caught onto the pattern after the eighth Worker. But Pawn listened to all twenty-five, nodding as each spoke their name. Because it mattered to them.

It was their name. And suddenly, Pawn had so many questions.

“You are all on break?”

“Yes, Individual Pawn. We are relieved from duty.”

“I see. Then will you sit with me? Some of the fluff places are open.”

In fact, they all were. The Soldiers let the Workers sit with Pawn. The Workers carefully touched at the blankets and pillows, afraid to sit too heavily. Pawn sat on the ground, refusing the pillows.

“You’re [Archers]. And you…fight.”

“Yes, Individual Pawn. Revalantor Klbkch assigned us to an archery unit. We were the second one formed. We support the Soldiers. It is an experimental role. We are experimental.”

“No. You’re not.”

The Workers started. Pawn held up a hand.

“I’m sorry. I meant…you’re not experimental. You’re all very—vital. You help fight, don’t you? That is a function the Hive needs. You use bows. That’s brave.”

They stared at him hungrily. And Pawn didn’t know why, until he remembered what it was like being them. Hungry for…

“Was it hard?”

“We fulfill our roles. We try not to fail. Sometimes we do. Our arrows miss.”

“Arrows miss. But you shoot at monsters coming straight at you. You do a good job. Have—have you ever been above?”

“Once.”

The whisper came from all of them. And they spoke in unison as much as apart. Pawn looked at them.

“Only once?”

“We were on a patrol. We saw the sky. We fought Shield Spiders. We did not eat food. The inn was closed. But we saw a dog. It barked at us.”

The Workers all nodded together. That was important. Pawn remembered being a [Carpenter] above. Yes, it was special if you saw anything other than the building you were ordered to construct, deconstruct, or repair. He nodded solemnly.

“That is very special.”

And inside, he felt a knife cutting his organs to pieces. Look at these Workers. They stared at Pawn as if they were staring at the Queen herself. And they had only been above once. The same for many Soldiers. Purple Smile took patrols above, of course, but—

“Let’s go above.”

The words came out of Pawn. They stunned the Workers. They hugged the pillows and blankets.

“Now?”

“Are we allowed? Is it permitted?”

“We have gone above once, though.”

“Some Workers have not. Archer Group F has not.”

“No? Then they should come too. Let’s get them. Where are they?”

Pawn stood up. He felt terrible, but in a different way all of a sudden. Look at these Workers! What was he doing? The Workers stood with him.

“Archer Group F is on the frontlines. Individual Anand has their group.”

“Let’s find them. You—come with me. Purple Smile! I’m going to lead a patrol to the surface. That’s fine. I think.”

Pawn waved at Purple Smile. The [Sergeant] smiled widely with his mandibles. Soldiers turned. Pawn pointed at a group waiting for their turn in the sparring circles.

“Are you free? Come with me. We’ll go to the surface.”

The Soldiers fell into line. The Workers followed Pawn, excited, as he strode down the tunnels. Nearly forty Antinium walked behind Pawn. It would be the biggest patrol ever allowed onto Liscor’s streets outside of a battle. Pawn didn’t care. He marched towards the front lines, where the dungeon met the Hive. The fortified sections of tunnel weren’t rushing with activity, which meant there was no fighting. And indeed, Anand was standing in a war room, speaking calmly.

“Shore up the first layer of Belgrade’s traps. Archer Group F will delegate ten members. Bring up five Painted Soldiers and send twenty regular Soldiers and fifteen Workers. In notation, this order will be: Shore 1st Layer. Reinforcements: Archer F, 10. Painted 5, 20 S, 15 W. Execute. Are we clear on the details?”

“Yes, Individual Anand.”

A group of Workers chorused around Anand. Pawn stopped, surprised. Anand was standing around a map of the Hive. And the Workers around him were…the [Tactician] mumbled to himself, clicking his mandibles.

“The notation is flawed. Once we implement unit designations across all the Hive, it will be easier to specify exact numbers from exact groups. Until then, draw from the reserves first and then the nearest tunnel not bracing for action or engaged. I trust your judgment. One of you send the message. Now, I—Pawn?”

He looked up, surprised. One of the Workers hurried down the corridor. Pawn stepped forwards.

“Anand. Am I interrupting you?”

“No. There is no fighting. Belgrade’s traps—Pawn, it is good to see you moving. What is this? Reinforcements?”

“No. A patrol. I was hoping to get Archer Group F to bring them to the surface for the first time. What is this?”

The two Workers met, stepping past all the other silent Antinium. Pawn and Anand, two of the original members of Erin’s chess club. Anand opened his mouth in a smile, and Pawn did likewise. They had both changed. But they were connected. Always.

“I am maintaining the defense of the Hive, Pawn. Belgrade is supervising the construction. I can pull Archer Group F and replace them if you want them. Someone go rescind the order. Order Archer Group C to fill their role. You…Steinitz.”

He pointed to a Worker. Pawn stared as the Worker sped off after the first Worker.

“Steinitz? That Worker is an Autonomous Worker too?”

“Yes. They aren’t Individual. But they have names, and they passed Revalantor Klbkch’s test. All of them are now [Archers] or assisting me in my war room instead of regular Worker duties.”

Anand gestured to the group of Workers around him. Pawn stared.

“Why?”

“It was my idea, Pawn. Mine and Belgrade’s, on order of Revalantor Klbkch. These semi-Individual Workers aren’t like we were. You understand that after meeting them, don’t you?”

“Yes. But why—”

“To teach them. And so they level. Having regular Workers fill the role won’t level them much. But some of these Workers—Archer Group A has two of their members who are Level 7 [Archers] already! Imagine what will happen if they reach Level 10? Or Level 20?”

Pawn nodded slowly.

“They’re valuable. Like the Painted Soldiers.”

Anand caught the note in his voice. He turned back to Pawn, his antennae twitching apologetically.

“Strategist. I am a [Tactician], Pawn. But there’s someone I want to introduce you to. You, come forwards.”

He pointed to the Worker who’d been standing closest to Anand. The Worker approached. Anand gestured to him.

“Pawn. This is Bishop.”

Pawn jerked back. He stared at the Worker, who raised a tentative hand. He was holding a clipboard, which was really a nail board since the bit of parchment was held in place by a small nail.

“Hello, Individual Pawn. I am Bishop. Individual Anand has told me about you. I am—”

“That’s not Bishop.”

The Worker recoiled. Anand whirled.

“Pawn.”

Pawn was shaking. The Worker looked at the other two. His voice was trembling. Blooms of fury were rising in his chest.

“Bishop named himself in the battle for Liscor. He died there, Anand. That was his name. You should have known—no. That was his name. You have to take another.”

He looked at the fake Antinium. The Worker was trembling.

“I—I am sorry, Individual Pawn. This one didn’t know. This one—”

Anand put two arms out in front of Bishop.

“Enough. Pawn. I allowed him to take the name Bishop.”

“You allowed?”

Pawn looked at Anand, shocked. The [Tactician] nodded.

“Two Antinium may have the same name, Pawn. And Bishop would not have begrudged his name being used. He might even have liked it, if he had understood it.”

“But it was his name. If another Worker has it—”

Pawn couldn’t articulate the rest. How would they remember Bishop, the real Bishop? But Anand just shook his head.

“The name is both of theirs. And it will matter to both. What this Bishop becomes and the Bishop we knew—it is not one thing or the other. They are both Bishop. Pawn. He wanted that name. Look at him.”

He pointed to Bishop. The Worker was shuddering. Hunched, like Archer B23. Pawn instantly felt his anger subside. He reached out.

“I am sorry. I did not mean that. I am sorry. Bishop. Forgive me.”

“Forgive?”

The Worker looked up. Anand put a hand on his shoulder.

“Say yes, if you bear Pawn no ill will, Bishop. It is your decision. Your power. No one may force you to say yes.”

The Worker looked back at Anand. The Soldiers the room stared at Anand as well. Workers and Soldiers. The [Tactician] looked around. And Bishop stared at Pawn. He hesitated. And thought. And then he spoke.

“Yes. I bear you no ill will, Individual Pawn.”

“Thank you.”

Susurration. Pawn stood back. Anand let Bishop walk back to his peers. The two looked around, and at each other.

“We were still growing. We were barely Individual, then. Even you. Now we are truly Individual. But these are Autonomous Workers. Not like us. Bishop is the closest, I think, because I play chess with him, and he helps me. But even he has a way to go. I am not sure about your Painted Soldiers, but I think all but Purple Smile and Yellow Splatters are closer to Autonomous than Individual.”

“That is the new metric? Did Klbkch come up with it?”

“Belgrade, actually. It helps differentiate them. And it makes sense.”

Pawn nodded slowly. He hesitated. Archer Group F arrived, walking into the room, holding bows and arrows, both crude. But no less deadly.

“I confess, Anand. I did not understand the plight of the Workers until now. I was too focused on the Soldiers. I’ve ignored part of our Hive. Again.”

Anand shrugged. He leaned on a wall; the action was so spontaneous and natural that neither Worker noticed. But the other Workers and Soldiers stared: none of them would ever have done that. None had.

“You were busy with the Painted Soldiers, Pawn. You gave to them what the Workers could obtain with chess. You cannot be everywhere.”

“You’ve looked after these Workers, then. I thank you.”

Anand hesitated.

“To an extent. The ones in this room—excluding the Archer Groups—are mine. But the vast majority of the Workers I don’t interact with. This is my personal group. Belgrade has his.”

That shocked Pawn. He opened his mandibles wide and hissed at Anand.

“It is not fair to single out separate Workers, Anand! They all deserve the same amount of attention!”

The [Tactician] tilted his head thoughtfully to one side.

“Fair? Of course not. But it is more efficient, Pawn. We cannot be everywhere, Belgrade and I. And Garry and Bird have not as yet expressed the desire to speak to any Workers or Soldiers.”

“But if you rotated them—”

“This group is my group. They are all [Tacticians]. They have the aptitude. I don’t need [Archers] or Workers whose talents lie elsewhere, Pawn. I like this group. I know all their names.”

“But they’re all Workers, Anand. Autonomous Workers. And the other Workers, the ones who aren’t Autonomous—if you don’t spend time with them, I can’t do it alone! It would not be equal, not be fair!”

Pawn stared at his old friend. Anand was nodding, but then he shook his head abruptly.

“Why would that matter? Fairness? That is a wrong concept, I think. Some individuals within the Hive possess capabilities greater than others. And unique existences such as the Queen and Revalantor Klbkch are worth more than any number of Soldiers or Workers. Our value is not equal, Pawn. Mine is not the same as yours, let alone Revalantor Klbkch’s. Or Erin’s. If we are to die, better it be Belgrade or I first.”

He tapped his chest. Pawn stared at the spot. Anand went on.

“In the same way, these Workers matter more to me. Archer Group A matters most because I know them. I realize it is unfair. But I cannot be fair. To make this group strong, I must prioritize it over others. And if there is a danger I think will wipe out an Archer Group, I would not send Archer Group A. That would be the wrong move strategically, you understand?”

He’d said that in front of Archer Groups B and F. Pawn looked at them, horrified. But he saw the Workers nodding calmly in response to Anand’s words. They approved of the logic.

“I can’t accept that. If we’re not equal, if one life has more value than the others, how can we understand each other? We were all Workers once, Anand.”

The [Tactician] paused as Pawn reached out to him. He grasped Pawn’s arm gently.

“That is true. That is very true.”

Pawn relaxed. Anand hesitated.

“And yet, I would say that has no bearing on how I conduct strategy or which Workers I select to be around me. Your line of thought interests me. It is not Antinium, Pawn. It comes from Erin, and Miss Ryoka, who you spoke to. It comes from above, from other species. I do not say it is wrong. I only wish to tell you that it may not be practical.”

He spread his arms, and Pawn could not deny that. Logically, Anand was correct. But illogically, in his heart, Pawn hurt for the Workers that Anand would never meet.

“I must disagree with your philosophy then, Anand. Even while I admit that your strategy is sound.”

The words were bitter. Anand nodded, accepting them. Then he looked up.

“Good. And I hope you will not change how you act, Pawn.”

The [Acolyte] twitched his left antenna. The [Tactician] smiled.

“I do not think I am wrong. Nor do I think it is wrong of you to continue believing as you do, Pawn. But I will act as I can for the Hive while balancing what I understand with what you say. I hold your words in great esteem. I only wish I could fulfill your expectations of me.”

And to that, Pawn had nothing to say at all. Anand thoughtfully looked back at his map. And then he raised his head. A Worker rushed into the room.

“Contact on Breach 1, Individual Anand. Thirty Eggwalkers.”

“Ah. I must attend to this. Send fifteen Painted! 40 S! Archery Group D!”

The Worker strode back among his peers, shouting orders. Only, Anand wasn’t really one of the other Autonomous Workers. He did seem taller among them, more animated. Pawn walked back, and the Workers and Soldiers in his group followed him. Anand waved to Pawn at the door.

“It is good to see you are not unhappy, Pawn. We will speak later.”

Pawn nodded. He walked past the other Workers clustering around Anand. It was hard even for Pawn to tell them apart. But then he saw one of them turn.

“Individual Pawn? This one will try his best to become worthy of the name Bishop.”

Pawn stared at Bishop. He hesitated. Then he nodded.

“Thank you. Goodbye, Bishop.”

Then he turned and went to find Belgrade.



——



“Anand has changed.”

Pawn spoke to Belgrade in front of a curious sight. Workers were constructing formations of dirt, terrain, even tunnels in a large cavern. It was a new addition to the Hive; it had replaced a storeroom and three access tunnels to be built. Presumably, it was important if the Hive had shifted its structure to allow for it. Belgrade stood in front of the flurry of Workers and nodded slowly in response to Pawn’s statement.

“Yes. As have I. More dirt to this section. There. Now, trigger trap six.”

He pointed absently as Workers packed dirt on a long tunnel. Pawn watched as one of them pushed a pillar made of dirt and set off a chain reaction. The tunnel ahead of the Worker collapsed in a whumph of dirt. Belgrade looked up.

“Six seconds. The speed can be improved. And I am dissatisfied about the weight dumped. It would not be able to crush one of the suits of enchanted armor, don’t you agree, Pawn? Try tripling the weight. We may have to add boulders.”

The Workers swarmed over trap six. Pawn looked at Belgrade. The Worker was still as he stared down at some blueprints on a piece of parchment, but his instructions were precise. The patrol that Pawn had brought waited, content to watch the other Workers while the two Individuals talked.

“Pardon me for not taking time to speak with you fully, Pawn. But I want to complete my latest trap modifications for the kill zone in front of the dungeon by today. Lyonette has requested an Antinium team to begin construction on The Wandering Inn. I will be directing the Soldiers and Workers to that duty. Unless you would like to fulfill the objective yourself? Or will you visit the inn?”

“She has? I—I think she told me about that. No. I’ll be going above with a patrol today. I’m…I don’t wish to have the duty. I’m sorry, Belgrade.”

Pawn lamely looked at the [Tactician] who was hard at work. While Pawn had mainly sat about and led prayers with his Painted Soldiers. The [Tactician] looked unconcerned.

“Do not be. I enjoy it.”

“Really? This?”

The traps and attempts at creating a more sturdy foundation were as boring to Pawn as anything he had seen. Belgrade was measuring how much one dirt, load-bearing column could hold. And comparing that against a similar weight in rocks. The Worker shrugged.

“Anand is always better at free-roaming tactics. Aggressive, evolving maneuvers of instinct. I have played chess, Shogi, and Go against him. I have lost more games than I have won. Except when he plays a strategy I am familiar with. You see, I prefer to create scenarios in which I can triumph. Which is why I like traps. Traps are predictable.”

One of the load-bearing columns collapsed. Belgrade made a note on his plans.

“Dirt is cheap too. I have now constructed six miles of traps from here to the dungeon by which we are able to eliminate most monster types. Workers and Soldiers are still needed especially against Flesh Worms and the like, which can tunnel, but we are now slowly gaining in numbers, rather than maintaining an acceptable casualty rate. I wonder how the other Workers and Soldiers will be deployed? Perhaps to your unit?”

He glanced up at Pawn. The [Acolyte] hesitated.

“I do not know. Revalantor Klbkch has ordered me to expand, but slowly. I think that is wise. I hope the Soldiers and Workers have a chance to rest if they are not needed to fight.”

“Most likely Revalantor Klbkch will send them into the dungeon to curb the enemy’s numbers. Or use the Worker in more construction projects. They are useless idle. Have you seen the Archer Groups at work, Pawn? They are most efficient for their kill-to-death ratio. Pawn? Pawn?”

Belgrade kept working on his blueprints for a minute before he realized Pawn had gone silent. He looked up. Pawn’s voice trembled.

“How—how can you speak of Soldiers and Workers dying like that, Belgrade? They are us.”

Belgrade paused.

“They are not, Pawn. They are Autonomous. Or regular Soldiers and Workers. They are not you. I have grown used to losing them. I could not bear to lose you. So. Do not die, please.”

He looked down. Pawn stared at him. He swept the blueprints from the desk. Belgrade made a clicking sound.

“Pawn!”

“Look at me, Belgrade! How can you say that? How can you not care about their deaths?”

Pawn seized Belgrade with all four arms. The other Worker raised his, then paused. He stared into the depths of Pawn’s gaze. And what was reflected in Belgrade’s multi-faceted eyes was—

“I counted, Pawn. After my first engagement as [Tactician] on the front, I was deeply disturbed and did not maintain adequate sleep after the first Soldiers and Workers died.”

Pawn stopped shaking Belgrade. His friend’s voice was soft.

“After the first week, I stopped waking up. Perhaps I was too tired. But I maintained adequate sleep. For the most part. After the first thousand. I stopped thinking about them with my every waking thought. I have counted them, though.”

“Counted?”

The [Tactician] nodded.

“My failures. I have lost…six thousand seven hundred and twenty-three Workers in engagements under my command. Is it a high number? Or is it lower than the Hive’s average? I do not know.”

He looked down at the blueprints lying on the ground. The Workers in the room beyond had stopped working. They stared at Pawn, along with the patrol. Belgrade’s voice was far away.

“They die when I fail. They die when I succeed. There is not a day where a Worker does not die under my command. And they look like me. They look like you. They look like us. But they are not us. They cannot be. Or else what am I doing?”

No one answered. Belgrade walked out of Pawn’s limp grip. He bent and picked up his plans, dusted them off.

“Traps. Traps are nice. They don’t kill Workers or Soldiers. Usually. But I will order them to their deaths if need be. If monsters breach my defenses, I will drown them in Antinium blood.”

He looked up abruptly at Pawn. The [Acolyte] couldn’t move.

“Facestealer killed four hundred Workers, Pawn. I just sent them into the tunnel until he left. I went there to see when he was gone. He took their heads, Pawn. Took them and left them. Lined them up. They stared at me. They looked like you. Like you and Anand and Garry and Bird and Knight and Bishop…like me. Are they me, Pawn? Me, before I met Erin?”

“Belgrade. I—”

Pawn reached out. Belgrade stepped back. He held his plans in his four hands. And his voice cracked. But he was no Aberration. He was just Belgrade. Trembling. Suddenly shaking, his stoic demeanor gone.

“Tell me. What am I now? Pawn?”

There was no answer Pawn could give. But at the same time, he could have never been still. He threw all four arms around Belgrade. The two Workers shivered, and Pawn slowly dragged Belgrade back. Out of that room filled with traps. The other Autonomous Workers helped Pawn pull Belgrade up as the [Tactician] protested weakly. Out of the dark Hive, and into the light. Towards the inn, where Belgrade sat and shook and Pawn called for Erin. And the patrol sat in the sunlight and drank blue fruit juice. And that was special.

Pawn sat in the familiar inn, because he was special and he had been there more times than he could count. He saw how Anand was wrong and right at the same time. Erin came out with Lyonette and hugged Belgrade. And the [Tactician] stopped shaking. Pawn explained, and Erin’s face contorted with sadness. And that was a crime in itself.

But for the first time, as he explained Belgrade’s anguish, Pawn saw the uncertainty on her face. As if she had no idea how to comfort the [Tactician] who had counted every Antinium he’d ever lost. He wondered if that expression had been on her face from the very start and he’d never noticed. Pawn wished he hadn’t seen it. But it was important that he had.

Everything changes.



——



She might not have known what to do. But she found out. It was a warm cup of milk, a blanket, and a dozen hugs. A gentle song as she rocked Belgrade. A flower from outside held up in a white Gnoll’s paw. And a pretty lie.

“It’s going to be alright, Belgrade. It’s alright.”

Erin held her old friend. And Belgrade calmed. And, eventually, he looked at Erin timidly.

“Do you have time to play a game of Go, Erin? Anand and I have wished to play you for a long time.”

The [Innkeeper] laughed.

“Of course I can. Settle down over here; I’ll get a board. Who else wants to play? You? And you? Who are you?”

“This one is Archer B23.”

“Oh. Oh? That’s a good name!”

“Yes, it is. Thank you.”

“And who are you?”

“Archer B1.”

“That’s a good name too! Alright, you sit here, and I’ll show you how to play if you don’t know. Someone get more milk for these guys?”

Lyonette grabbed a pitcher of warm milk by the fire. She brought it over and whispered.

“Erin, they’re acting on stage.”

“Oh. Right, right! I’ll lower my voice. Everyone who wants to watch, sit over there. I’ll go over here and teach these guys. Be shush. Hey, Archer B23. Do you know Bird?”

Pawn smiled. He sat with Lyonette. The [Princess] sat next to him, watching the rest of the Soldiers and Workers taking tables closer to the stage. The Players of Celum, clearly pleased to have an audience not heckling them, decided it was time to put on a full performance of Macbeth.

“You haven’t been here lately, Pawn.”

“No. I’m sorry, Lyonette. But I’ve been—”

Her hand found his on the table.

“You don’t have to explain. I’m just glad you came up. With Belgrade.”

“Yes.”

And somehow, Lyonette’s silence was more comforting than anything Belgrade or Anand had said. It was a good silence. And Pawn sat with her as Mrsha crawled up onto a chair next to Lyonette and decided to nap on her other side. And he sat there for…he couldn’t have said how long. Watching the play. Until the door burst open and Ceria shouted into the inn.

“It’s a damn election!”

And then, of course, things were noisy. But Pawn felt the warmth on his hand even when Lyonette got up. He turned obligingly as Ceria and Yvlon entered from Liscor’s door to shout about something with Erin and Lyonette in the corner. Another Antinium followed them. He was notable because he had three arms. And he was as different as Belgrade and Pawn. But…

“Ksmvr.”

“Hello, Pawn.”

The former Prognugator stiffened a bit when he looked at Pawn. And Pawn felt the phantom pain racing down his arm. Ksmvr edged backwards. He seemed smaller to Pawn. Less terrifying. Pawn wondered if he should shout something. But then he looked at Ksmvr’s missing arm and decided not to. The Prognugator looked around.

“I will get out of your way. Excuse me.”

“I…you don’t need to. That is your team. I am simply listening.”

Pawn walked past Ksmvr. The other Antinium stared at him. Then he ducked his head slowly and joined the group.

“An election? Really?”

“That’s right. And we just heard the latest. Uh—Ceria, explain it.”

The half-Elf had a very good imitation of Pisces’ sniff in Pawn’s opinion.

“The Antinium are funding Liscor’s expansion and giving money to the City Watch’s budget, among other things. But that depends upon Krshia getting her seat on the Council. So she’s likely to sweep her district because who doesn’t want free gold? I’d vote for her.”

Yvlon nodded. Erin whistled softly, an action that made every Antinium in the room instantly turn to look at her. The [Innkeeper] glanced at Pawn.

“Whoa. That’s big. Pawn, did you know about this?”

The Worker shook his head. He didn’t really care, but he cared that everyone else cared. Then he thought about Workers getting a chance to work in the sunlight. Maybe Soldiers could guard them or help?

“I think this is a good idea. But I have no idea what it is about.”

“Krshia’s claiming that the Antinium will pay two thousand gold per year. Possibly more. Not bad, although I can see that not going too far in the case of the City Watch. Even steel’s expensive if you’re arming a thousand. But more? And helping pay for construction? That is a big incentive—I don’t know if the Council can deny an election with that on the table.”

Drassi, who’d also been sent to gather information, was chattering to the others. She had the pulse of the crowds. News was spreading fast about the proposed election, and the Antinium offer had just pushed public opinion hard. Lyonette nibbled a fingernail as she thought, frowning.

“Klbkch is offering a lot to Krshia, Selys, and Zevara. I’m surprised they’re the ones behind it. Erin, you’re sure you didn’t say anything to them?”

“No! I mean, not about this specifically. Why does everyone think this is my fault?”

Lyonette turned towards Pawn.

“Can the Antinium really fund all this, Pawn? Or even more?”

Belgrade looked up from his table where he was pondering his next set of moves. He hesitated and closed his mandibles without speaking. Erin absently placed a Go stone down as Archer B23 hopefully placed a black stone.

Pawn thought of the storage areas devoted only to holding the gold, copper, and silver. They had to be reinforced to account for the weight of all that metal. Then he thought of the artifact chambers, and other stockpiles in the Hive. He shrugged.

“The Hive can pay for it. It would not be hard.”

“Well then, I’m sold. Go election! Hey, can anyone run?”

Drassi threw up her claws in delight. Erin was smiling too.

“That’s so cool! Democracy! And I didn’t do anything! Honest! I think. Wait…no, I’m pretty sure! Hey, let’s go see what Krshia’s saying! How about it?”

She looked around. The others nodded. Pawn found himself following Erin through the door. She reassured him.

“Your Workers and Soldiers are fine. Belgrade’s there, and he thinks he can plot out a victory while I’m gone. Hah! Although he’s a lot better. But I’ve been practicing Go. It’s nice to have a good opponent! Where’s—oh, wow!”

She’d come to Market Street, or rather, the crowd hanging out the back of it. Drakes and Gnolls let Erin’s group push into the crowd—mainly because they weren’t given any choice. Yvlon was polite—Drassi knew every third person, but Ceria and Selys unapologetically pushed through.

They tripped, cast minor cantrips, and elbowed without mercy. Drakes and Gnolls sprang aside, swearing at him as cold spells made them move. Erin followed, apologizing profusely for her friends. Which, Pawn realized, coincidentally brought her through the crowd as well. Ksmvr was taking notes.

Krshia was standing on her stall, but she was now speaking to a huge number of people. And many of them were chanting ‘election’ while others shouted questions at the Gnoll. She was fielding them, and pitching her election plan every few minutes to the crowd coming in and out.

“The Antinium have agreed to help expand Liscor! Yes! And contribute to the funding of the City Watch and Adventurer’s Guild! That is an opportunity we should not pass up! Think of it! We could expand Liscor and build an entirely new district! And with that space, we could build more than just apartments, yes? Let both Drakes, Gnolls, and, yes, Humans immigrate to Liscor! We could construct forges for [Blacksmiths], perhaps even huge warehouses like those used in Pallass! Or—what about a forest, a park inside the city walls? One with trees?”

The citizens of Liscor stared at Krshia, caught by the ideas she was floating past them. Erin, who’d reached the crowd right in front of Krshia, paused, and Pawn heard someone else half-shouting.

“Tone it down, Krshia! Don’t promise too much!”

“Let her! It’s just an idea!”

Two Drakes were standing in front of a group of Gnolls. Pawn recognized Zevara and Selys. The Watch Captain was shaking her head, dismayed by Krshia’s rhetoric.

“This idea is getting too big. I mean, we didn’t even consider it! Inviting Humans to settle in Liscor? A huge park? Swimming pools? Who gave her those ideas?”

Both Drakes turned and stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged innocently.

“Hey. Krshia just asked me for ideas the other day. And if the Antinium are going to build it, they can do it, right? I mean, I’ve seen some cool stuff in Pallass, but even they don’t have pools! And you could make walkways and add more floors to all the buildings! Build the walls even higher! Raise those walls! Raise those walls! Whoo!”

She raised her fist. The Gnolls turned around and the chant started spreading through the crowd. Erin laughed. Then she looked unaccountably guilty.

“Ooh. I don’t know if that’s a good one to shout. Oh well.”

Pawn looked around. He didn’t know what Erin meant, but the crowd seemed very pleased with Krshia’s ideas, as far as he could tell. Krshia was getting cheers, and the chant of ‘raise that wall’ was already being adopted. Zevara was addressing Erin when Pawn turned his attention back to them.

“You can help. Ancestors preserve me, but I’m okay with that. Especially if you can get Klbkch to promise more gold. But you have to promise me—no disasters!”

“Hey! I don’t try—okay, sometimes I do try—”

“No disasters! No one knocks down a wall or—or you somehow invite a group of Half-Giant [Architects] to the city! Got it?”

“Do half-Giant [Architects] exist? I wonder if Moore knows any.”

“Gah! Selys, do something about her!”

“Calm down, Zevara. Erin’s not doing anything. This is our idea. She can’t—”

“Raise those walls! Raise those walls!”

“Elections! Gnolls on the Council!”

“Vote for Krshia! How do we vote?”

“No more Antinium!”

The voice cut through the shouting. It was a strident shout, a piercing note of dissonance. The crowd quieted. Zevara closed her eyes. Krshia’s head turned around. Her smiling face turned into a snarl.

Pawn looked left. Coming down the street was a group of Drakes. Some Gnolls, but mostly Drakes. And they were being led by someone being carried on his own stall. Pawn didn’t recognize him until Selys hissed his name.

“Lism. Oh, Creler eggs. What is he doing now?”

The [Shopkeeper] swayed as his counter crowd advanced down the street. He came to a stop, grabbing at the side of his stall, and glared at Krshia. His voice was a shout.

“Let Humans into Liscor? Do you not remember the army that was besieging our city not a month ago? Hello?”

The jubilant mood of the crowd was gone in a second. Pawn was quite impressed. He stared as Lism shook a fist at Krshia.

“And what’s this? Antinium paying for Liscor? Excuse me, but am I the only one who sees a problem with that?”

“Only you could find a way to object to free money, Lism!”

Krshia snapped back to a laugh from the crowd. Lism turned red, but Selys leaned over to Erin, looking worried.

“What is he doing here? Krshia chased him off once, but he’s got a crowd behind him. Is he trying to stop the election?”

Drassi snorted. She’d come up on Selys’ other side and leaned on her friend.

“He’s just a blowhard. Who’s going to argue against expanding the city if it’s cheap? And free money? We’ll take that from the Antinium, thanks!”

The Gnolls around her nodded. But Selys looked worried. So did Zevara. And Pawn, looking at Lism, saw the Drake sneer at Krshia.

“You think the Antinium do anything for free? You’re delusional, Silverfang. And what’s this about having them construct the city? Would you trust walls built by the Antinium? They’re the only thing that’s kept the Antinium from wiping us out!”

He pointed dramatically at the walls of Liscor in the distance. The crowd craned their necks to see. Krshia folded her arms and glared.

“You say that, but unless you can solve our housing issue—”

Lism bawled over her, cutting Krshia off with sheer force of volume!

“I don’t need to hear a bad idea to refute it! No Antinium walls! No Ant builders! No Humans taking our city!”

“No Humans! No more walls!”

The crowd chanted behind him. They weren’t larger than Krshia’s crowd, but this group was organized and united. Some of the listeners began looking towards Lism instead of Krshia. The Gnolls around Erin, Selys, and Pawn looked disgusted. Krshia growled.

“You’d do nothing, Lism? You’re as bad as the Council!”

“Hah! I’d do better than you, Silverfang! And I wouldn’t be a tool of the Antinium! People, don’t listen to this furball! If you want leadership, vote for me, Lism!”

The Drake struck a pose to cheers from the people around him. The Gnolls shouted in outrage.

“Furball!?”

“Not an hour ago, you were against an election. Why the sudden change of heart?”

Krshia shouted back at Lism. The Drake laughed at her.

“If we do have an election, why not run? And what’s more, I can promise better than Antinium gold and Antinium favors!”

“Lies. Pure lies! You don’t have anything to offer!”

Krshia howled. Lism smirked.

“Oh, I don’t, do I? Everyone, please direct your attention that way! Wing Commander, please take your men forwards!”

There was a moment of silence as the crowd turned to look. Zevara, standing in front of Pawn, suddenly groaned.

“Wing Commander? Oh no—”

Pawn heard the first beat of the marching drum like a tingle on the back of his carapace. Then the ratatatattat of the drum sounded, and trumpets began to blow a triumphal melody. Pawn looked up and saw the crowd parting.

They marched down the street, four abreast, as precise as a unit of Antinium Soldiers. Their armor was polished. Their neck spines were oiled; their fur was combed. The [Soldiers] were Drakes and Gnolls, but their insignia marked them. Liscor’s sons and daughters.

The army of Liscor. They came down the street like thunder. One of the Drake [Captains] roared above the sound of the trumpets and beating drum.

“4th Company! Present arms!”

The Drakes and Gnolls unsheathed their blades and held them out. The crowd jumped back, but the 4th Company’s track was perfectly calculated. They walked forwards, their feet a solid, pounding beat accompanying the drums. And at their head rode a Drake whose scales were as fiery as the blush on her cheeks.

“Citizens of Liscor, I give you the hero of the Battle for Liscor. Wing Commander Embria!”

Lism roared over the sound. Krshia stared. She pointed at Embria.

“What is she doing here? This is not a military affair! The army left Liscor in our darkest—”

“The army was here! They held the line! Or do you forget that the 4th Company fought and died outside our walls?”

Lism bawled at the crowd. The Drakes, even the Gnolls, looked ashamed for a moment. The 4th Company did indeed have conspicuous holes in the hundred that had first come to Liscor. Krshia tried to shout something, but Lism had the momentum. And perhaps a voice-enhancing spell, because his voice resounded even over the marching 4th Company.

“The army defended us! It was Drake [Soldiers] and Gnoll [Guardsmen] on that wall! More than the Antinium. Liscor defended itself! And the army was here. If they had known the Goblin Lord was assaulting Liscor, our army would have come back in force to smash both the Goblins and Tyrion Veltras to bits! But I agree with honored Krshia. We should have more than just one company! That’s why if I’m elected, I’ll call for three more companies to be stationed permanently in Liscor!”

The thump thump thump of the boots was a backdrop to Lism’s voice as well as the beat of the drums.

“I’ve spoken with our High Command, and they’ve agreed to send permanent reinforcements to aid our heroic City Watch. We don’t need foreigners and Ants flooding our city. I hear the Antinium want to bring more of their kind in. The High Command has also approved to fund Liscor’s walls with honest money the army earned themselves! Vote for me, and we’ll bring our army back! Bring them back! Bring them back!”

The crowd howled the same words behind Lism.

“Bring them back! No more Ants! No more Humans! Bring them back!”

Lism stood on his platform and raised a hand. Embria had reached him. Reluctantly, the Wing Commander looked around from the back of her restless steed. Lism pointed at her, raising a claw clenched in triumph.

“Wing Commander Embria stands with me for a united Liscor! A hero of the Battle for Liscor supports Lism Swifttail! Remember that! Who will back Krshia Silverfang? Not one of our army’s finest! Vote for Lism! Market Street! A vote for Lism is a vote against Krshia! A vote for a sane Liscor!”

The crowd around him roared approval. Krshia’s supporters shouted back, but the crowd that had come to listen wasn’t full of diehard supporters, and they were drowned out. Pawn, wondering if he could block out the discordant sound, heard Drassi exclaiming next to the others.

“Oh, dead gods. He lives around here too! Selys! Lism’s in the same district as Krshia! It’s him or her!”

Zevara stared up at Embria. The Drake wasn’t exactly meeting anyone’s eyes. But the entire 4th Company was standing there, and Lism was continuing to shout over Krshia. Selys and Zevara slowly turned around. Ceria was chewing her lip, and her eyes swung left. Slowly, everyone looked at Erin. So did Pawn.

The [Innkeeper] raised her hands.

“Uh oh. Uh—that’s not my fault either.”

She hesitated.

“I think. I’m pretty sure. I…I think?”



——



The streets around Market Street in Liscor were in uproar. The chant, the beating drums, and Lism’s voice was an unrelenting beat. A march of sound. But beneath Liscor, the Hive was just as mechanical.

Mechanical and silent. Usually. For the sounds the Antinium made as they went about their duties lacked voices. They lacked intention. The sounds were byproducts of tasks being carried out and, as such, usually gave the Hive a sense of quiet, even in the noisiest corridors. It was unfeeling sound.

Until it was broken. The noise receded. And something small, quavering and meandering, crept through the tunnels. It halted Workers in their tracks. It echoed. And it journeyed from place to place, a strange bit of audio in a world unprepared for it.

It was a song. And it came from the chambers of the Free Queen. The song trailed off and started again. It went fast and it went slow. But it was music. And it was as magic as magic itself.

The Soldiers standing guard shifted. One almost turned to look before he turned straight, watching for threats. And the sound travelled further, through the tunnels. And those who heard it, Worker and Soldier alike, paused. The Listeners grew still, and their quiet notation of what they heard above halted for a second. Their ink-stained appendages, so much like quills, stopped transcribing. Because they had no idea how to write music.

At first, it was glorious. Then it was playful. Serious. Meandering. And then just silly. Inside the chambers, a little Antinium rocked back and forth on his back. The stump of one regrowing hand waved in the air as Bird sang.

“Bird that I am. Birds that I see. A bird flies down and calls to me. Birds of the land, birds of the sea. Oh, I wish I had a bird to eat.”

It was a nonsense song. A silly song, one the Worker made up on the spot. Those were half the songs he sang. The other half were songs the Free Queen had never heard before, with words that Bird sometimes sang from memory, other times inserted into the existing lyrics. Songs he had been taught by Erin Solstice.

But it was a song. The Free Queen listened. Bird rocked back and forth, singing happily. Then he trailed off. She looked at him.

“Is that it?”

“I have not made the rest of the song. Perhaps there is no rest of it.”

He stared up at her innocently. The Free Queen nodded. That was an answer she’d learned to expect from Bird.

“Then sing me another song, Bird. Another song.”

“Okay.”

Bird happily acquiesced. With no context, with no warning, the pitch of his song suddenly changed. He sang a staccato, high-pitched melody.

“There-is-a-nutcracker. Who-cracks-nuts. There-he-goes. Cracking-nuts. Crack-crack-crack-crack-crack.”

After the silly song, the sudden change in music was as discordant as someone smacking two rocks together. The Free Queen sighed.

“Little Bird.”

“Yes?”

The Free Queen bent. In her cavernous chamber, her massive form bent down to the little Worker lying on his back. The Free Queen inspected him with one huge eye.

“I have heard that song before. The song is Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy. From a…play called The Nutcracker.”

“Yes.”

“I have a question.”

“Okay.”

Bird waited. The Free Queen sighed again.

“There are no faeries or sugar in your song, Bird. Just a song about a nutcracker who cracks nuts and kills birds by using them as bait. Why?”

“I do not know. I made up the words myself.”

“Ah.”

The Free Queen stared down at Bird. He stared back up at her. The Free Queen’s mandibles opened.

“I have many questions.”

“I have no answers.”

“I see. You may stop singing. I have heard enough for now.”

“Okay.”

Bird happily rocked back and forth. The Free Queen stared at him. One of Bird’s legs was pushing him off the ground, rocking him on his beetle-shell back. His regrowing limbs waved happily. They were rapidly regrowing. And Bird was animated. Perhaps too much. The Free Queen sighed, but without any rancor. She turned, and her thoughts grew pensive.

For she was the Free Queen. And while Bird’s music was a welcome distraction, Klbkch’s messages to her reminded her of her duty. She turned her head and raised her voice.

“Bird. Garry. Come here.”

From out of the private kitchen an Antinium Worker appeared. Garry the [Cook], in charge of the Free Queen’s meals, scurried out, looking distressed.

“My Queen, I am afraid your snack is not ready—”

“It is fine. Leave it. Approach. You too, little Bird.”

Garry nodded and came forwards to halt, staring up at his Queen. Bird rolled over until he was lying in front of the Free Queen. She looked down at them.

“Bird. Garry. I am about to speak of a subject of utmost importance to the Hive. You two will respond to the best of your abilities.”

The two Workers looked up at her. Bird slowly stopped rocking. Garry stood straighter.

“Yes, my Queen.”

“Good. Then listen. Garry. Bird. I tested you, once before. To see if you were worthy of being True Antinium. You failed.”

Garry’s antennae quivered. Bird opened his mandibles.

“I remember that. Pawn was very sad.”

The Free Queen looked down blankly at him.

“Was he? It may be an appropriate reaction. But do you recall the nature of the test?”

“I…recall some of it, my Queen. But I do not remember all of it.”

Garry slowly took off the chef’s hat he had been allowed to buy. Bird wiggled his antennae.

“No.”

“I asked you what the purpose of the Antinium was. Recall your answers.”

Bird hesitated. He looked up at the Free Queen.

“Was it…something about birds?”

“Yes. And it was incorrect. Garry. Do you recall what Bird does not?”

The Free Queen looked at Garry. The Worker hesitated. Then he spoke in a clear voice, trembling slightly.

“I do, my Queen. We answered, each in turn. Belgrade answered that it was to defend and protect the Hive. Anand believed it was to level up and serve the Hive in that way. Pawn thought it was to…be better. That fewer would die. Bird thought it was to eat birds. I—I asked if it was to replicate and create more Hives. Is that the answer, my Queen?”

“No.”

The response was flat. Cold. Garry flinched under it. Bird just stared up. The Queen looked down on them. And the pleasant music that Bird had sung was a distant memory. Now she was pensive. Thinking deeply. And unhappy. Both Bird and Garry could see that in her.

“Bird. Garry. You both failed that test. Your answers were false. But I will test you a second time. So. Listen. And answer. What is the purpose of the Antinium?”

And the Free Queen waited, the answer in her mind, shouting. She looked at the two Workers. At Bird especially. And she waited. The two Workers looked at each other. Garry was first.

“Is it to be happy?”

“No. Bird.”

The little Worker stared up at the Queen. She stared back, and her antennae quivered. She had thought on this for weeks. And she had not dared test Bird, because of what it might mean. She was afraid. But duty was duty. She did not know if she wanted him to be wrong or right. Bird thought for a long while. Then he answered slowly, haltingly.

“Is it not to eat birds?”

The Free Queen exhaled. The wind ruffled both Workers’ antennae. Relieved, almost relaxed, the Free Queen reached down with one large feeler. Bird made a sound as she lifted him up, cradling him.

“No. You are incorrect. You have failed.”

Bird didn’t react in any particular way to the news. But the words staggered Garry like a blow. He looked down, and then up. He spread all four hands slowly towards the Free Queen.

“My Queen. You ask us a question with many answers but only one true one. May I ask…how should we know the correct answer? Is it something Revalantor Klbkch would know the answer to? He never told us, my Queen.”

“He was never meant to.”

“Then why ask? Is it something we should know?”

“Yes.”

The Free Queen rocked Bird. His mandibles opened in a smile. She half-turned from Garry. He spoke again, hesitant.

“But how should we know? If we were not told—is it something we should have known from our creation, my Queen?”

The Free Queen hesitated. But the truth didn’t matter to the test. She turned her head back.

“The question does not matter. It is a different one each time. But the answer matters. It must be the same as mine. Do you understand, [Cook] Garry?”

He hesitated and shook his head.

“No, my Queen. I do not understand.”

“Ah. Then look at me, Garry.”

He did. A tiny Worker appeared in the Queen’s gaze. She stared down at him and held the answer in her mind.

“This is the nature of the test. I ask you a question. Any question. And you answer it. What number do I think of, Garry? That is the test. Now. Listen. I am telling you the answer. Can you hear it?”

The Worker listened. He looked up at the Free Queen’s closed mandibles. He looked at Bird. The Worker was staring up at the Free Queen. After a minute, Garry shook his head.

“I am sorry, my Queen. I hear nothing. But you said nothing. How was I supposed to hear it?”

“With this.”

The Free Queen lowered another feeler. Garry flinched as the feeler gently touched his antennae. Then, wonderingly, he reached up to touch it.

“My Queen? But you can hear my thoughts with it. And you can order me. Or—if I concentrated—”

“I can hear you, Garry. With effort. If you project your thoughts as you are ordered. I can even send my will to you. But you cannot hear me. I must be the one who sends to you. Do you understand that?”

Garry slowly nodded. Bird tilted his head.

“We can hear and speak. And you can hear and speak, Queen. But only one of us has a voice and ears?”

“Yes. That is…close, Bird. Garry. Do you understand?”

The Free Queen looked at him. The [Cook] hesitated.

“I think I do, my Queen. Forgive my ignorance.”

“It is a question. I answered. Now you understand why you failed.”

Wearily, relieved, the Free Queen waved a feeler. She looked at Garry. A month or two ago, she would have never said more than a few words to him. Now, she spoke to him. On occasion. She knew his name. Because of the Worker gently humming below her. She put Bird down. She had hoped he would hear the answer. Feared it.

“You may go, Garry. Bring Bird a snack. An Ashfire Bee if one is left.”

“Or a bird.”

“Or a bird.”

“Yes, my Queen.”

Garry sketched a bow. Then he hesitated. He turned back and hesitantly looked at the Free Queen. She, sending a mental order, did not miss the gesture. She looked back.

“Soldiers. Escort. Garry. Speak.”

Two of the Soldiers stationed at the entrance to the chambers left at a trot. Garry looked up at the Free Queen. And then he spoke.

“My Queen. Forgive me. But will you tell me the answer to your question? What is the purpose of the Antinium?”

He waited. Then he flinched as the Queen looked down at him. Her huge head bent, and her voice was very quiet.

“Return to the blighted lands. Destroy the thing that lurks in the darkness. Return and bring death to the deathless one. Destroy all that lives on Rhir and render it to dust. Avenge, revenge the Antinium. For her. For her memory, and in her name. That is the purpose the Antinium have. The purpose that burns in the hearts of the Prognugators and the Queens. It should be your existence. But it is not.”

Garry stumbled back. The Free Queen looked at him.

“You cannot hear it. Though I roar the name in my mind, Garry the [Cook]. And though you do not mean it, you offend me.”

“I—I am sorry, my Queen.”

“For what? You were not created properly. You are a failure. The fault is not yours.”

The Free Queen straightened abruptly. Garry spoke again.

“That was what you told us.”

“That was why Pawn was sad.”

Bird spoke up. The Free Queen looked at them.

“It is the truth. You two are failures. For all you are Individual.”

“But I thought—aren’t we what the Free Antinium set out to create, my Queen? Individuals? That is what Revalantor Klbkch claims.”

The Free Queen mulled over the statement.

“Klbkch speaks a half-truth. We set out to create Individuals. But I would rather have created True Antinium. Because Individuals shape the Hive. But the True Antinium are all Antinium.”

“And what separates them from us? Hearing? Listening with the mind?”

Garry’s voice shook. As if the denial of his purpose had shaken him. Bird just rocked back and forth. Back and forth. The Queen’s voice was flat.

“Yes. There have always been Soldiers. Always Workers. They did not look like you. They were…far different. But they fulfilled the same tasks. And no matter how they looked, they were Antinium. Because they were part of the Hive. I had only to think, and that will would be carried out. The Antinium were not separate, but one mind. A Queen was but one part of a whole. A Soldier a limb. We were together. We never marched alone.”

“I am with Garry. We are not alone.”

Bird spoke up, almost defiant. The Free Queen shook her head.

“Little Bird. You do not understand. Tell me. Do you think the Soldiers who guard this Hive are strong?”

The question made Bird and Garry look at each other. Both nodded. The Queen laughed, and it was a hollow sound.

“Why? Because they have strength? Numbers? A thicker carapace? That is not strength. An army of Soldiers fights together. It is true. The Antinium have cohesion. But the True Antinium were beyond that. If you had seen them, you would understand. An army of True Antinium Soldiers moved as one being. They looked with a thousand eyes. Thought with a thousand minds. Thus linked, an army of Soldiers could outmaneuver most [Strategists] and fight with a unity no other force could match. Imagine it. A Soldier could dodge a blow from behind or know a charge was coming without needing to hear. He would comprehend and react at the speed of thought!”

“Oh.”

Garry nodded. Bird opened his mandibles.

“But we all react at the speed of thought. Don’t we?”

Garry and the Free Queen looked down at him. Bird shrank.

“Don’t we? Am I wrong? I am wrong. Wrong…”

The Free Queen patted his stomach gently. Bird stopped rocking.

“They thought with every mind present, Bird. That is the difference. Consider this. One of the abilities of the True Antinium was the power to coordinate flawlessly over long distances. Queens could work together in small groups or by the hundreds and amplify our connection. It was known as a Unitasis Network—we formed a similar bond during the First and Second Antinium Wars, the few of us that remained. But we had to route our connections through our Prognugators, and at distance we lost focus, cohesion. If we had armies of True Antinium, we would have not needed to strain so to make our voices heard. We would not have needed Prognugators.”

“Because we would have all been linked. One command would have reached us all.”

The Free Queen nodded. Garry understood. He looked up at her.

“Is that what we lost, my Queen? In our voyage across the sea?”

She looked down at him, startled. Dark memories swam across the Free Queen’s mind, but she chased them back. She bent down.

“What do you know of the crossing of the ocean, Garry?”

He shrank. The Free Queen forced herself to pull her head back.

“Only—only what Anand said, my Queen. He found a book. About the Antinium Wars. It said that we lost many ships leaving Rhir. Were we on Rhir?”

The question was both painful and offensive. The Free Queen recoiled from Garry, and her body rose, almost convulsing. She raised her limbs furiously. And then paused. He did not know. It was not his fault. Garry flinched, looking up at his Queen. When she spoke, her voice was taut.

“You have never witnessed the True Antinium. You cannot imagine it, little Garry, little Bird. But the six remaining Queens of the Antinium remember. Xrn. Klbkch. Wrymvr. The last of the Centenium. They remember. Yes. We were on Rhir. We may still be. And we left it. And we were glorious. Look around. Look around my chambers. Look upon me. Walk the length of our Hive. And understand this if nothing else, Garry, Bird. What you think is the Antinium is nothing less than a fraction of what we are. What we were.”

They looked up at her. They had no reference, no frame to understand. But the Free Queen tried to make them understand. Suddenly, she was gripped by that horrible compulsion. She tried to project it to them as if they were Klbkchhezeim. But they were deaf and mute.

“You think this Hive is large? It is small. Insignificant. You think I am a proper Queen? I am weak. Compared to my predecessors, I am a fool. A fool and pathetic.”

“But you are our Queen.”

Garry’s voice was small. The Free Queen paused. Then she shook her head.

“You were not there. You did not see them. The glories of a true Hive. The forms of true Antinium. As varied as the species that walk Izril. There were so many Queens. So many Prognugators and Centenium, yes, Centenium like Klbkch. But he was different too. Our Hives stretched countless miles down into the earth. Our armies could have swept across Izril like a true tide. In our youth, we were mighty.”

They were just words. But still, they held Bird and Garry. The Free Queen went on, and her eyes saw glorious halls and sights that decades had failed to erase. A glimpse. Oh, a glimpse.

“We were so strong! We emerged from the ground and took all four walls of Rhir. We could have taken the capital, but we were fleeing. The kingdom was necessary to safeguard. So we left. Because our enemy was that strong. That terrible. That even the combined Hives of the True Antinium and our armies were helpless against it.”

The shadows grew long in the Free Queen’s chambers. She raised her feelers helplessly, as if she could conjure the scenes she spoke of with shadows instead of memory.

“We fled. Yes. But even in flight, in retreat, in decline, it was an age of glory that exceeds any of a species above ground. They wane. But we are a species younger than any other. We were created. And we created ourselves. You have seen Klbkchhezeim’s new form. I shaped that. But my work is clumsy. Slight. The Queens of old were capable of shaping chitin and flesh as easily as Garry shapes food. They created Antinium of every color and size and function to serve the Hive’s needs. And we had our champions.”

“Who were they?”

Bird’s voice was wondering. Garry simply stood, staring at his Queen as she spoke, more animated than he had ever seen her. The Free Queen struggled to even speak.

“How could I ever tell you if I could not show you? They were giants. War Queens, mighty and immune to harm. Shaper Queens, who spun new Antinium as easily as thought. And Hive Queens, who administrated our Hives, tended to supplies and security and expansion. And there were smaller Queens too. Junior Queens who assisted the older Queens in their duties. I—I was a Junior Queen.”

“You?”

“Oh yes. Barely created. I was one of the last generation to leave our home. And I was part of the fleet sent to cross the oceans. To take Terandria, a nation described to us as weakest of the four other continents. But we failed the voyage.”

“Because of the water.”

Both Workers shuddered. The Free Queen hesitated.

“No. Yes. Perhaps. It was a failing of parts. We had never been at sea. We knew water, but we had never dreamed of sailing across it. We underestimated the distance. The trials. But we might have made it better than we did. We had brought an army. But the army died without more than a fraction having fought.”

“How? Did the boats sink?”

The Free Queens’ voice darkened. The shadows cast on the wall writhed.

“Worse. They died asleep. The bulk of our force was sealed in the bottom of the ships. In stasis, to avoid the need to consume our own during the voyage. We left the mightiest of our Queens and the Centenium to guard the ships. We thought…the Grand Queen of the time must have thought it was enough. It was not.”

Her voice quivered. And then grew flat. As if emotion were something you could simply switch off.

“First it was pursuit. Warships sent by Rhir. They sank our ships with fire and magic. We were unprepared. The Antinium had not adapted to the water. We could not swim. They used that against us and sank our ships. But we destroyed them. Then came pirates. People of the waters. They clashed with us. We killed them. Overran their vessels and slaughtered them at sea. Monsters preyed on us. We hunted them. Soldiers leapt from the edges of the boats and died killing their foes. But we continued. Our fleet would have made it. Then the storms came.”

The darkness closed in as the two Workers looked up at the looming Free Queen. She whispered, reaching out. Rain and water fell from the skies, until it seemed as if the horizon, the ocean itself, was all water.

“I have never seen such storms. Xrn says they were more than winter storms. They came from Wistram itself, from the [Mages] of every nation in the world. I do not know. I only know that the waves were fifty times as large as the tallest ships. They swallowed ships whole. And yet, we sailed through them. Xrn broke the waves in half with magic. The Queens sailed their ships through whirlpools and maelstroms. They had never crossed the ocean, but they dared the storms. And for every ship that broke, six survived. And we might have survived. But then it came.”

“What?”

Something with a hundred limbs reached out. The Free Queen looked around. One of the lead ships disappeared. A Queen called a warning in thought and mind. Below the ships, a dark shadow appeared in the churning waters. One miles long.

“I understand it to be called a Kraken. A devourer of fleets. This enemy brought the storm. Or perhaps the storm summoned it. It came to feast. And it brought all the horrors of the ocean with it. But the Antinium did not give in. We had nowhere to run. So we brought the fight to it. Our Queens dove from the railings. They cut it. Xrn brought down lightning. But it was not enough. One by one, they leapt. Into the waters.”

Galuc the Builder clung to a tentacle as it gripped a ship. The giant of the Antinium tore into flesh until the limb retreated to the waters. And blood turned the waters purple. But Galuc never returned. The Antinium were leaping, into a maw that split the sea. Fighting, dying, as the ships struggled to flee.

“Sixteen of the Centenium died there. Klbkchhezeim lost his true form. Our fleet sank, and with it, all the true Antinium were lost into the waters before they had a chance to fight. Sorcery could not damage the vessels our War Queens and Shaper Queens resided in. Even the Soldiers’ containers were impregnable against ordinary steel wielded by faulty flesh. But water killed the Antinium of Rhir where no other force in the world could. We have never suffered such a defeat save for when the First Queen fell.”

The roaring storm subsided. The howl of the Kraken faded into memory. The ships drifted as Xrn’s magics kept them together. Wrymvr flew, cutting a path in blood towards the shore, a distant speck. And the Free Queen looked around for someone. Anyone. But all that was left were children. Two hundred warships gone. Four, battered, sinking, all that remained.

Gone.

“We were less than twenty when we landed on Izril. We were all juniors. The oldest of us was an apprentice. And we had lost everything. All you see now, the works of decades, is a paltry fraction compared to what left Rhir. A disgrace.”

The Free Queen’s limbs trembled. The hole in her was opening, trying to swallow her again. She looked around reflexively, but there was nothing to eat. Two Workers stared up at her. So she finished the story, bitterly.

“I lost my mentor. She died before my eyes. I saw our Grand Queen’s ship go down. Our species died there, on the water. We were supposed to be the hope. In a decade, we would have returned to Rhir, bringing justice and retribution. Instead, we are locked in a struggle. Forced to a stalemate by a handful of species incapable of working together. That is the Antinium of now. But we were greater then. She was greater than I will ever be.”

“Who?”

Garry asked, but the Free Queen could not speak her name. She retreated, sinking down. And the word beat at her mind, a scream of longing, regret. Until she heard it.

“Bessachidia.”

The Free Queen thought she’d said it out loud. But the voice that spoke it was quiet. Male. She looked down. Bird stared up at her. He said the name again.

“Bessachidia. It is a pretty name.”

“How do you know that name?”

The Free Queen breathed slowly. Then not at all. She reached down. Bird tilted his head as she lifted him up, staring at him.

“I can hear it. Like a distant bird flapping. Very far away. Sometimes, it sounds like the other thoughts in my head. Or words. Is that what it is? Is that you, my Queen? I thought it was just me. Or something else.”

“You can hear me.”

“Maybe?”

Bird was uncertain. He looked at the Free Queen intently, like the birds he hunted. The Free Queen shook her head.

“You heard me. Then, at the battle with the Goblin Lord. You heard me and the Soldiers.”

“They were laughing. And sad. But laughing. Sometimes, I hear things like that. You were very loud.”

“I was.”

“That was her name. A Queen had a name? Was—was she the Grand Queen?”

Garry’s voice was awed. The Free Queen laughed bitterly.

“She was not the Grand Queen. Bessachidia was my teacher. My mentor and one of the finest Queens ever to be created of the Hives. She was a Shaper Queen, a master of manipulating and creating the essence of which all Antinium are formed. She could weave forms as well as any but our First Queen. She might have even created something akin to one of the Centenium had she the resources and time.”

“Ooh.”

That was all Bird said. The Free Queen made a sound like laughter as she held him. And it was laughter; the True Antinium had known laughter, rare as it was. It was said the First Queen laughed before she died. But now the Free Queen thought of her mentor.

“Bessachidia. If she had lived, she could have brought all the war forms and images of our people to live on Izril, even alone. She could have created other Queens. And she could have fixed you in minutes, little one. I was meant to learn from her. Everything I have done now is based on the few lessons I learned. I, and the Silent Queen. But we were never Shaper Queens. We were just…”

Her voice trailed off. Birds looked up at her. Garry was trembling, overcome by too many emotions.

“Do you want to go back?”

“Where?”

“To Rhir. You said you’d go back. Was that a lie? Erin does not like it when I lie.”

The question paused the Free Queen. She stared at Bird. Then she nodded. Slowly.

“Yes. That is what we swore. And that is what the Grand Queen claims we will do, when Izril is ours. But I do not know if she believes. And the other Queens—I do not know if they believe.”

“Do you?”

“Yes. I still believe. I still work for that day, little Bird. The day we return and bring justice and vengeance to Rhir. So does Klbkch. But I have grown. I am…different now. Very different from the Queen I once was. I eat this—food. I cannot help it. I cannot stop. It hurts.”

She gestured towards Garry’s kitchen, and the [Cook] looked up at her, suddenly alarmed. Bird glanced at the kitchen.

“Does it hurt very muchly? Eating?”

“No. Living. Always, Bird. We destroyed our bodies birthing the first thousands of Antinium. And we were not meant for it; we had to modify ourselves during those first days in Izril. Experiment—some of us bore more of the cost than others. Silent Queen, the Flying Queen, and I were…lucky. We were youngest, our bodies frail, so we were not chosen for the first tests. The older Queens accepted it. Eight died. Of the first that survived were the Twisted Queen. The Armored Queen. The Grand Queen at the time was less affected. But we all suffer.”

“It sounds bad. I do not like it. Do you want a healing potion?”

Bird’s voice quivered. The Free Queen made a sound like a laugh.

“It is. And no healing potion can change how our bodies have altered, Bird. But we persevere. And I—I have found what I need. I was exiled from the other Hives. Cast out, because I tried to create an Individual. Or one of the True Antinium. One who could think as we originally did. I thought it was an impossible task at times. But Klbkchhezeim believed. And now. Now I have found a True Antinium.”

“Where?”

Bird looked around excitedly. The Free Queen made the same sound. Garry looked up.

“She means you, Bird.”

“Me?”

“Yes.”

The Free Queen reached for Bird’s head. And she stopped. She looked at Bird and tried. Oh, she tried. But it was hard. Harder than words. It shouldn’t have been. Why did it have to be him?

“If it were my mentor, she could have found out what makes you different. But I am not her. I have none of her Skill. And even if I took you apart, I might not find out what makes the True Antinium. But even a fragment of a chance is enough. If I could just kill you without regret. If you did not sing, little Bird. How easy it would be.”

He looked at her, and the Free Queen saw he understood. Bird looked at her feelers. At her limbs. At her. And he spoke clearly.

“But I do not want to die.”

“I know.”

The Free Queen held him to her face. Her mandibles opened and closed.

“And yet, you can hear me. Barely. But it is enough. What makes you so, Bird? I must know. The True Antinium are what made us strong. If I was sure, it would be so easy. And if I knew it would matter…to strike a blow at our enemy, I would kill you, dear Bird. I would tear myself apart bit by bit if it would help.”

“But I do not want to die.”

He looked at her. The Free Queen hesitated. She reached for him, and Bird rocked. But the Free Queen did not squeeze, or snuff that little life out. Slowly, gently, she placed him on the ground. Garry ran to Bird and hugged him. Bird stared up. The Free Queen sat. She felt old and tired. And it hurt.

“What should I do? We are waning, Bird. Waning. Even Klbkchhezeim, my Slayer, is faded.”

“Really? Klbkch is very scary. He has swords.”

This time, the Free Queen did laugh. She thought of Klbkchhezeim and laughed, and laughed, a despairing, echoing sound.

“Once upon a time, he needed no blades. His body was a weapon. He walked in shadows and danced like death as he cut his enemies apart. We lost his form in the waves, and only the Silent Queen’s imitations even come close to what he was. He was Centenium. And we will never recreate that, not with a thousand years of trying.”

Garry and Bird looked up. Garry was holding Bird protectively. He dragged Bird backwards slowly, edging away from the Queen.

“My Queen, what are the Centenium?”

The Free Queen watched him.

“The Centenium were a hundred prototypes, Garry. Created by the First Queen, whose skill was unrivaled, even by Bessachidia or the other Shaper Queens who came after. Each one unique. We could copy their forms, but never their identity. And now there are three. Three, from a hundred. Can you imagine the loss?”

“Yes, my Queen. But what can be done?”

Garry was tugging Bird back. A few more steps and he’d be out of the Free Queen’s immediate reach. She spoke slowly.

“That is the question all the Queens ask. Each has another answer, hence our Hives. The other Queens believe it is numbers, or armaments of a superior form, that will save the Antinium. I say not. I say war with the Drakes is fruitless. I say we are bound to return. And I say that we must have our Centenium. Our leaders. Our heroes.”

Garry stopped. Bird looked up.

“Heroes, my Queen?”

She nodded. And the Free Queen rose as she raised herself on old limbs. Garry began to retreat with Bird. But the cavern was suddenly so small.

“The Centenium were heroes. They were our greatest, Individuals. For we had Individuals. Prognugators, even among the True Antinium. They led us. And they were what we have not been able to replicate. Queens and heroes. That is why I came to Liscor. And that is why you, Garry, and you, Bird, are precious. Too precious to kill.”

She caught them. Garry stopped. He looked up at the Free Queen. Bird did too, on his back.

“I am good at killing things. But I am only Bird.”

“Yes. But you are an Individual. One of five true Individuals. And you are strong, little Bird. Klbkchhezeim told me you killed a Flesh Worm yourself in the dungeon.”

“…Maybe? Was it a bird?”

The Free Queen shrugged.

“It does not matter. You are precious. And you sing. If you did not, little Bird, I would never have cared. But you sing. Bessachidia sang. And you are Bird.”

“Yes. Will you kill me, my Queen?”

“No.”

The Free Queen sat. She raised a feeler, and Garry turned to her. And both he and she were trembling.

“Garry. Take Bird before I change my mind. Bring him somewhere else. Far from me. And Bird, grow your legs. Grow your arms. And go back to your inn. Grow. Level. And never be injured. Never come back to me. When you die, I will take your body and find out what makes you True Antinium.”

Garry bowed. Bird looked up at the Free Queen.

“But I like you.”

“And I like you, little Bird. So fly away. Or else I will eat you.”

The Free Queen bent, and Bird reached up. She touched his hand. And Garry pulled him towards the door. The Soldiers stood there. Garry slowed. Her mandibles opened, and he gasped. The Free Queen ignored him. She looked past Garry, past Bird. She spoke to the Antinium gathered there, and to her faithful Prognugator above.

“Klbkchhezeim. Come back to the Hive. You say it is time? Very well. I am ready. Show these Drakes, then. And show the Free Antinium something akin to what you were. What Xrn is.”

She rose. And Garry and Bird stopped. The Antinium standing in the doorway paused, and the Soldier retreated. The Free Queen spoke.

“You. I am tired. But you are my greatest work yet. You, who know why the Antinium struggle. Go. And show me something that can rival the True Antinium. Show me a new kind of Antinium.”

She received no reply. Garry looked back at the Free Queen and tugged Bird towards the door. The Worker, lying on his back, stared up as he passed by Soldiers. He blinked, and his antennae waved. He spoke almost hesitantly.

“Hello. My name is Bird.”

“I know.”



——



Two sides met and mingled in Market Street. But the debate, no, the argument had taken a life of its own across the city. Somehow, the debate had changed. It wasn’t ‘should we have an election’, it was ‘who will we choose?’ And the easy question became difficult.

“Let me ask you something, people of Liscor. Do we want more adventurers crowding our city? Do we need the Antinium to do the jobs of our [Builders], [Bricklayers], and [Masons]? And, with respect to ‘honored Krshia’, is she really the best person for the Council?”

Lism stood on his platform and shouted at the crowd. Drakes booed Krshia. Some Gnolls looked unhappy. The 4th Company of Liscor’s army marched, their breastplates gleaming in the sun. Lism pointed at them.

“For your consideration, citizens of Liscor! A hero of Liscor! And Wing Commander Embria does not trust the Antinium. Do you?”

On the other side, Krshia growled, and her Gnolls howled insults and Drakes shouted insults at Lism’s crowd.

“The army sent back only a hundred soldiers in Liscor’s direst hour! Is that heroism? The Antinium fought for the city! They saved it from the Necromancer, no? Is that not worthy of trust?”

The crowd split and mingled. Lism bellowed, his scales flushed with rage.

“Who held the line in front of Liscor? Our army! Who kept the Goblins from the breach, who foiled Tyrion Veltras’ plans? Wing Commander Embria!”

“Hero of Liscor? You mean, Butcher of Liscor! It was Goblins who saved the city. An army of them, not a hundred or so [Soldiers]!”

Krshia bellowed back. But not everyone was with her, not even her own species. In the crowd, Erin looked up at Lism, fists clenched. Pawn was silent. Hurt. He wanted to leave the crowd, but Lyonette was holding his hand tightly. She glared up at Lism. Selys’ voice was tight.

“You get up there, Erin. Tell him to go walk into a Shield Spider nest.”

“No.”

“You’re more of a hero than Embria ever—”

“No.”

Drassi looked at Zevara and Selys.

“Not that I’m saying this is a good idea, but what about Numbtong—”

“No.”

Everyone around Drassi chorused that. A Goblin wasn’t the right person to call a hero at this moment. More than a few citizens around Lism were waving old banners, Drake banners with heraldry of Dragons, or Liscor’s symbol, a city-on-the-waters. The city that divided a continent.

And it was a divided crowd that Lism crowed to. He pointed at Krshia.

“Butcher? Harsh words for someone who fought! Wing Commander Embria held the line to defend our city. She had orders, and for Liscor, she would have died. She is a daughter of the city, and she does not trust the Antinium. Wing Commander?”

There was a shuffle. Wing Commander Embria got onto the podium, looking upset. But her voice was clear as she spoke.

“The Antinium cannot be trusted. Will you trust them with the walls of our city? Why not let honest Drakes and Gnolls build it with their own claws? Why not let us defend our home?”

She raised her spear, and the 4th Company shouted in reply. The crowd looked at Krshia, and the Gnoll had no one to hold up.

The issue was dividing the crowd. Goblins and Antinium. Humans and open borders versus the Walled Cities and Liscor’s army. It wasn’t that Lism was making great points; it was just that whenever Krshia tried to poke holes in his words, he’d have the drums begin banging or shout over her.

“Do we even need an election? Why not let the army send their reinforcements? Why risk doing things like Pallass? Do we need to deal with this?”

Lism changed his stance a third time, appealing to the parts of the crowd that were sick of the argument on the streets. Krshia opened her mouth and shouted back at him.

“Are you afraid of Gnolls on the Council, Lism?”

“I’m not the one trying to strike a deal with the Antinium to steal a spot, Silverfang. Why do you feel entitled to a seat?”

Lism sneered back. Krshia glowered.

“Why not put it to a vote, then? An honest vote?”

“Oh, sure, sure! Let me see. Vote for the Gnoll who came here ten years ago or a Drake that’s lived in Liscor all his life? And who has the support of a hero of Liscor?”

Lism raised his arms to another cheer from his supporters. Selys ground her teeth together.

“That’s not even an argument! He’s just making noise! Krshia’s getting killed up there! Erin, come on, you can shout something at Lism.”

She grabbed Erin’s arm. But the young woman looked sick as she stared at Lism.

“I don’t want to.”

“Erin—of all the times—!”

“If she does not wish to speak, it would be a minor felony to force her to do so against her will, Miss Selys. This is a warning, although I am not currently on duty.”

A voice spoke up from behind Selys. Pawn turned. Watch Captain Zevara blinked.

“Klbkch?”

The Antinium had appeared out of the crowd. He calmly surveyed the scene.

“I seem to have arrived in time. And I understand this argument has gone against Shopkeeper Krshia? I see. Her ability to debate Shopkeeper Lism is impaired. She is using rational arguments. The trick is to employ words like swords. Something I had to learn from people who were not Antinium.”

“What?”

Everyone around Klbkch stared at him. But Pawn only looked at Klbkch and silently moved out of the way. Klbkch walked past him.

“If you would allow me, Watch Captain Zevara, I believe I can assist Miss Krshia at this moment.”

“If you think you can—be my guest!”

Klbkch nodded. He reached for a stone at his throat and clicked his mandibles.

Click.

The sound made the entire crowd wince. Lism swore at the same volume and looked around, clutching at his earholes.

“Who on—oh. One of them.”

He pointed at Klbkch with disgust. Some of the Drakes among his supporters made disgusted expressions, but most of the crowd, even those supporting Lism, turned to Klbkch with curiosity. The [Soldiers] in Embria’s 4th Company were among those who glared at Klbkch. The Antinium made a sound like clearing his throat.

“Good evening. Pardon my interruption. I would simply like to clarify a few details for the sake of accuracy. To begin with, the Antinium have no goal of sabotaging Liscor or its walls. Our offer to assist with the construction of Liscor’s walls and contribute funds to the city was made with goodwill. I deeply regret any misunderstandings that have occurred due to lack of clarification.”

He gazed steadily at Lism as he said that. The [Shopkeeper] flushed.

“Well, how can we trust—”

This time it was Klbkch who spoke over Lism.

“Furthermore, I would like to clarify a detail surrounding the battle for Liscor, as it is being referred to, against the Goblin Lord’s army. For right or wrong, Liscor’s army did fight. But a fraction held the walls and took to the field. Statistically, Pallass’ army spilled twenty-eight times more blood than Liscor’s army did on the field. They held the walls. And the Antinium took to the field before Wing Commander Embria.”

This time, there was silence. Erin leaned over to Pawn.

“Oh snap.”

The 4th Company of Liscor’s army was giving Klbkch a death-glare, as was Wing Commander Embria. Lism’s face mottled.

“Are you—Senior Guardsman Klbkch—accusing Wing Commander Embria and the heroes, no, martyrs who gave their lives of cowardice? How dare you. How—”

“I do not make any allegations of cowardice, Shopkeeper Lism. I only respectfully point out that if there is a debt in blood to be honored, it is to be shared with the Antinium and Goblins who died to the last to stop the Goblin Lord. For they did die. Goblins attacked Liscor. And Goblins saved it.”

“Lies! That was a Goblin civil war, not some grand act of goodness!”

Lism bellowed loud enough to make the shutters rattle on nearby apartments. Klbkch’s voice snapped back, calm and collected as the ice.

“Shopkeeper Lism. I am Senior Guardsman Klbkch. I do not lie. To do so would be a violation of my duty. And you are one of the people I am sworn to protect and serve, sir. That duty I will uphold until death and after it. Regardless of how I am perceived in your eyes. Goblins fought for Liscor. And they did so to save the city. That is the truth. I will swear it on a truth detection spell. Will you do the same?”

The Drake hesitated. Before he could reply, Klbkch turned. His voice rose by another order of magnitude.

“Wing Commander Embria is a hero of Liscor. And so is Watch Captain Zevara. They held the walls, and they held the breach. But they did not assail the Goblin Lord. They did not give their lives for the city. My Soldiers did. I would remind those listening that they died for this city. And the Antinium believe in Krshia Silverfang’s vision for Liscor. They believe it is something worth dying to protect.”

The Drakes and Gnolls quieted. They listened and looked at Klbkch. And he stood alone, in a circle of people who were not his own.

“I regret that I am unable to bring forwards a company of the victorious Soldiers who fought against the Goblin Lord. But they perished in the line of their duties, unlike the 4th Company of Liscor. And yet, a hero of that battle does stand with us.”

His head turned. Pawn, standing a few feet away from him, had a terrible premonition and began to back away. Klbkch looked towards him, and Pawn felt Selys grab his arm and look pleadingly at him. But the Worker was shaking his head frantically as more and more Drakes and Gnolls looked at him and remembered.

“I have heard that true heroes never die. This is true of the Antinium. If Wing Commander Embria stands here, it is only fair that a hero of the Antinium answer her.”

“No. No.”

Pawn resisted the clawed hands pushing him forwards. He was going to shout at Klbkch. He could not do this. But strangely, Klbkch was not looking at him. His head had turned past Pawn. And slowly, Pawn’s head turned too. And he heard it.

A shout. A cry that rent the air. Above the shouting of the crowd, Lism’s failing voice charm. Shouts. And then screams.

“The Antinium are invading! Sound the alarm!”

Someone cried that in the distance. Every head turned back to Klbkch. He did not reply. And the crowd laughed. Someone had probably seen that patrol of Antinium. Who was panicking? Idiots.

But it was an invasion. The laughter became gasps and even screams. A black army was flooding out of the Hive. Soldiers were rushing out of the Hive. Soldiers and Workers. They filled the streets, pouring forwards.

“Attack! It’s a coup! Flee for your lives! Soldiers, defend us!”

Lism panicked on his platform. The 4th Company formed a line, and Embria grabbed her spear, staring. Then her eyes widened. Pawn, craning to see, desperately pushed through the crowd. The Drakes and Gnolls moved back, afraid of the black tide that flowed forth. But it was not towards the other Antinium that Pawn looked.

The Free Antinium followed him. A single figure, striding out ahead of the rest. He was not like the Soldiers or Workers that followed him. Not in body. Nor in whom he was.

He was taller. Larger. The Soldiers, who were all the same, were a head shorter than him. And this Antinium’s body was enhanced beyond even that of the regular Soldiers. His four arms flexed, and his fully realized digits stretched in the air. The sun shone down on his shoulders. He walked in front of them, taller with each step. A colossus. A familiar soul.

He came to a stop as Pawn stumbled forwards. The Worker was shaking. Disbelieving. It couldn’t be. But it was. The giant looked down at Pawn, and he was taller than Pawn remembered. His body was changed. But the smile was the same. And the yellow glinting off the arm he offered Pawn was real.

The Antinium turned to the crowd. And he opened his mandibles and spoke.

“I am Yellow Splatters.”

His voice was deep. And commanding. Yellow Splatters stood in front of the people of Liscor. His body was new. It had been built by a despairing Queen. It had been filled with a soul of a Soldier. A dying warrior. A son of Liscor. And though he had not been created with the genius of the Shaper Queens of old, the Free Queen of the Antinium could give him a voice. And voices were just sound. Easy to make. So she had given him the voice of a leader. A general.

A hero.

Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles and spoke. To the disbelieving citizens. To the 4th Company of Izril, who faced this giant among Antinium uneasily. To Erin Solstice, eyes full of tears. To the Antinium of his Hive. And to Pawn. And the Antinium could not weep. But they could listen.

“I am one of the Painted Antinium. I perished in battle against the Goblin Lord. My hundred Soldiers and I fought to the last for Liscor. I was brought back to life. I have heard what Krshia Silverfang has proposed. And the Free Antinium of Liscor support her. For Liscor is worth dying for. This is what I have come here to say. The Antinium die for Liscor. Let us help build our home as well.”

That was all. Two of Yellow Splatter’s arms came up, and he saluted along his left side. Then he turned and walked back. But that was all he needed to say. In the silence, no one could speak. Not even Lism. Well, not really.

“That’s clearly an impostor. They got another Soldier, put yellow paint on him—they all look alike. How could anyone fall for…”

He trailed off and stared at Yellow Splatters’ back. Someone whispered as Yellow Splatters passed by, followed by his people.

“It’s part of his body. Look.”

The bits of yellow on his body weren’t paint. They weren’t added on. The yellow color was part of the Antinium’s carapace. Irreversibly marking him. And where he walked, the people turned and stared. At a miracle. A truth too large to be a lie.

There he walked. And Pawn followed him, feet away. So close he could touch the broad back. A giant among Soldiers. Larger. Stronger. And he had a voice.

Yellow Splatters.

He stopped in front of the Hive. Amid a wave, a sea of Workers and Soldiers. They stared at him. There Yellow Splatters stood. And when he spoke next, it was just for them. To them.

“I have died. I have come back. I stand here to tell you all one thing. One truth I saw after I died with the others.”

He looked at Pawn. And the Worker trembled. He shook with guilt and regret. But Yellow Splatters gently took Pawn’s shoulders. He looked down into Pawn’s eyes.

“You were right. It is there.”

The Worker didn’t know what he meant. Then his legs grew weak.

“You saw it? Truly?”

The head nodded once.

“I saw it. Heaven. It exists. Believe. It exists.”

The Antinium stopped. The Hive looked up. Yellow Splatters gazed towards the sky and shook his head.

“It is not up. It is not down. And it is tiny. It is as fragile as this. As small as…”

He opened his hand and grasped at the air. He clenched his fist and met every eye.

“But it exists. And it is being built. It can be built. We must make it grow. So believe. Believe. And you will be saved.”

He looked around. Pawn fell to his knees. The Workers and Soldiers looked at Yellow Splatters.

They had all gone away. Soldiers and Workers. They had died for glory, ignobly, by ones and twos and by the thousands. But at last—after so long—it had happened. Yellow Splatters had died, fighting for the Hive. He had sacrificed everything he had. But that was not what made him a hero. If that was so, all Antinium were heroes and none were. No. It was that Yellow Splatters had fought. He had gone to protect the Hive. And then he came back.

He came back.

That was all they had ever wanted. Pawn knelt. He bowed. And he no longer needed to believe.

Because it was true.



[Acolyte Level 18!]

[Miracle – Heal Minor Wounds obtained!]





Interlude – Embria


(The Wandering Inn is on break until July 13th! 15th for public readers. The author must rest. See you then!)



Wing Commander Embria Grasstongue of Liscor got up like she normally did. For a minute, a good, nice, long minute, she lay in bed as the dawn’s rays began tickling the scales on her face. Her crimson scales, as vibrantly red as could be, reflected the light, creating a small nimbus of color on the far wall of her room. Embria admired it. Then she raised her voice.

“4th Company, assemble!”

The shout went straight through the thin walls of Embria’s private quarters. She heard a thud from the room over, a groan, and more distant sounds still. The Wing Commander swung herself out of bed and reached for her folded clothes and armor. Then she checked herself and just took the clothes.

A minute later, Embria pushed out of her room. The Drakes and Gnolls in the officers’ quarters were still dressing. They looked up as Embria strode into the room.

“Inspection, then morning training. Hop to it.”

The two [Captains], five [Lieutenants], and eight [Sergeants] in the room groaned. Embria ignored them and headed straight for the main barracks that housed the regular [Soldiers]. They were larger, but not by much; the officers weren’t outnumbered by much when it came to the regular soldiers.

The first [Sergeants] followed her as the sleepy [Soldiers] rolled out of their bunks. Those who’d slept through Embria’s call and their fellows warning them to wake up got up as the [Sergeant] rolled them out of their mattresses and onto the floor.

The thumps and curses were a backdrop to Embria’s voice. The Wing Commander bellowed into the barracks that the 4th Company of Liscor’s army was using in Liscor.

“Wake up, ladies! What are you complaining about? We’re waking up at dawn, not before! This is the height of luxury. Now, present your gear, and so help me, anyone who isn’t ready for a scrap I will feed to Captain Vell for breakfast! Stand to attention!”

The [Soldiers] did. The [Sergeants] and [Lieutenants] proceeded down the bunks, checking gear and calling the Drakes and Gnolls out. The Drakes and Gnolls of Liscor’s regular army stood straight, wincing only when some aspect of their preparations was called out.

They were, as Embria had indicated, all female. The Wing Commander gave the female wing of the barracks five minutes of her presence, and then marched over to the male half, where the officers were already doing the same process.

“That’s enough. Captain Wikir, take the squads out and have them practice. Anyone with punishment detail will take it out of their vacation time. The rest of you, to the practice grounds on the double!”

Embria jogged out of the barracks, followed by her 4th Company. She ignored the muttered jokes and groans coming behind her; her men and women, none of whom were in fact actually Human, were right on her tail. And in the early morning, all ninety-seven of Liscor’s 4th Company were running down the streets of Liscor.

They were headed to the sparring grounds. Usually, they’d do it right outside their camps, but since they were quartered in Liscor, the 4th Company had arranged to use the Adventurer’s Guild’s large practice area. Embria didn’t expect to find many people there this early.

And indeed, only a few private citizens were there. They let the 4th Company form sparring sets and occupy eighty percent of the courts. Embria grabbed a practice spear and went through her morning routine alone. She barely thought about it until she came to sparring with one of her [Captains].

First Captain Wikir, the second-in-command to Embria, was her first victim. Then two more of his [Captains] took his place. Embria took a few hits during a sparring session with two-on-one, but the wincing officers walked away with twice the number that she did.

“Alright. That’s an hour. Back to the barracks!”

Embria called a halt to the morning training as she checked the position of the sun. She led the way back down the streets, which were still mostly empty and towards the barracks. The [Soldiers], who had been reluctant to abuse their bodies, brightened up and picked up the pace. They could smell food coming from the barracks, and the [Mess Sergeants] on duty had readied the morning meals.

That was how Embria started her day. But in truth, that was almost all muscle memory. And muscle shouting. It was rote and routine. It was only during breakfast she remembered what day it was. Then she smiled.



——



4th Company’s officers got their own, smaller mess hall to eat in. The [Captains], [Lieutenants], and a few [Sergeants] had the privilege of dining with their [Wing Commander], a rank roughly equivalent to [Major] in other military traditions. The [Commander] rank that Embria possessed meant she acted with autonomy and authority; the officer ranks below her possessed some of the privileges and abilities she did, but the [Wing Commander] class was a leadership role of note.

If [Leader], [Sergeant], [Mercenary Captain], and so on were all the most basic tier of leadership—from small groups to larger ones—then [Commander] was the middle tier. And [Generals], [Lords], and so on were the greatest of leaders. In 4th Company, Embria’s was the highest role.

It still meant she ate the same food as the regular soldiers. There being no dedicated [Chefs] attached to 4th Company at the moment, the [Mess Sergeants] had to take up the slack or Embria would have to hire a [Cook]. And she wasn’t about to do that. Not that anyone minded.

“Good food! Pass me a damn biscuit. I’m starving.”

The first female officer into the room was a Drake. She flopped into her seat, her scales beaded with perspiration. A Gnoll sat across from her and obligingly flicked a biscuit at her commanding officer. The Gnoll yawned. She reached for a steaming kettle.

“Hrr. I hope the tea’s strong this time. I’m nearly falling asleep on my paws.”

“Long night?”

Embria walked towards the head of the smaller table as some of the other officers took seats nearby. The Gnoll [Sergeant] shrugged. It was a relaxed formality in the officers’ mess.

“Hrr. I was up late. Drinking. This tea’s not strong enough for me. Got some more tea leaves?”

She peered into the pot. The Drake sitting across from her, [Captain] Vell, a sharp-tongued Drake with yellow scales, eyed the Gnoll under her command, Lieutenant Kesa.

“It’s good enough for me. But then, I like tea. You hate it, don’t you, Kesa? Wing Commander, biscuit?”

Embria raised a claw. Vell skimmed one across the table. A Gnoll [Captain] leaned back reflexively and scowled as he reached for his plate. Embria caught the biscuit without missing a beat. Kesa sighed through her nose.

“That’s right. I’d use stamina potions, but they taste awful, yes? And they do terrible things to the stomach if you have too many for too long. You have a better option, [Captain]?”

“Sure do. Hold on. Try some of these.”

Vell got up and reached for her belt pouch. She slapped a handful of hard, brown objects onto Kesa’s plate. The other officers eyed the objects dubiously; Vell was known to pull a lot out of her belt pouches, and it was very rarely wise to eat what came out.

Kesa the Gnoll sniffed along with a few other Gnolls at the table. She wrinkled her nose, but picked up one of the little objects.

“What is this? It looks like a bean. Do I put it in my drink?”

“Hah. No. Just eat them. Grind them up and swallow. They’re a natural wake-up supplement. I bought them from Oteslia a while back, and I use them sometimes when we’re out of tea or I need to wake up.”

Kesa blinked.

“What, from the Walled City? Really?”

“No, scales-for-brains. The other Oteslia. Not the one we’ve been fighting with and against for the last two years.”

The Gnoll sniffed.

“Hrr. No need to be rude. What kind of beans are so…hard? And small?”

Vell shrugged.

“They were actually green. See, they’re good for energy, but they were starting to rot. So I tossed them in a pan and fried them up. To get rid of the moldy spots.”

All of the [Soldiers] stared at Vell. She scowled.

“Don’t give me that! It works! Anyways, they work. Try it.”

She glared at Kesa. The Gnoll hesitated, but Vell was her superior. The things you did for rank. Embria watched sympathetically as Kesa delicately popped three of the bean-things into her mouth and began to chew. Embria heard some loud crunching, and then Kesa made a face. She took a gulp of tea as Embria sipped hers.

Today’s breakfast included some pickled fish, preserved from the spring. It went really well with some roasted onions, a few greens, and all put together with a Gnollish sauce that had enough spice to really make the mouth water. The biscuit was a wonderful carrier for the concoction, and Embria chewed, watching Kesa make a face.

“Eugh. Bitter. Almost as bad as stamina potions. How long does it take?”

“Few minutes. But you’ll wake up. Go on. Have the handful.”

Kesa did as she began to eat the rest of her breakfast. After a few minutes, she did indeed perk up.

“That is better than stamina potions, yes? Say, Captain, would you mind lending them to me?”

Vell nodded. She spilled more beans onto the table from a pouch dedicated to holding them.

“Take ‘em. I’ve got tons. Apparently, they’re from some Balerosian plant that Oteslia imported. Those [Gardeners] grow all kinds of things, and this stuff isn’t popular. Good travel pick-me-up, though.”

“You keep anything else you want to share in one of those pouches, Vell?”

Another [Captain] leaned over, looking interested. He was male, one of four [Captains] left in 4th Company since their battle at Liscor. Traditionally, that number of [Captains] would have demanded a huge regiment of [Soldiers], but Liscor’s army was somewhat unique. It relied on high-level officer classes and a very small army of sitting [Soldiers]. In fact, Liscor’s army was more of a force-multiplier. If it led a larger force of low-level [Soldiers], it was incredibly deadly.

Vell scowled and placed a hand over her belt.

“Nothing I’m offering you, Pielt. Only my squad gets to share my stuff. You want to get something? You should have gotten it at Oteslia before we crossed half the damn continent.”

“Aw, come on, Vell. Not everyone saves their coin—”

“What are you, a [Soldier] with his first month of back pay? Pass me that gravy boat and I might give you something.”

“…The butter?”

“Yup. Out of my scales.”

The Drake sighed and raised a finger. Vell threw a biscuit at him. It bounced off of another Gnoll’s head, and he glared around. Vell shrugged apologetically. Then she turned to Embria.

“Hey, Wing Commander. Any reason for today’s inspection?”

“Besides making sure you lot aren’t getting lazy? Be glad I didn’t check the officers’ gear myself. If we need to fight, I’m not having anyone claiming they left their sword at a [Sharpener]’s.”

Embria glanced up from her second helping. Vell nodded.

“Fair. Fair. I’m just asking because my squad’s getting antsy. They were telling me that they’re afraid they’ll be stuck here for another month before being recalled with no action. After the Goblin Lord was…”

She drew a claw across her neck.

“You know?”

Half the officers in the mess glanced at Vell. Embria could see the missing spots where some of her officers and friends should have been. Vell didn’t blink twice, though. After a beat, Embria replied.

“They think that, do they? Well, I can’t say how long we’ll be here, but we’re not sitting on our tails all this time. I suppose now’s as good a time as any. Captain Wikir.”

The Gnoll sitting next to her glanced up. He twitched one tattered ear as he looked at Embria. Wikir was twenty years Embria’s senior and had dozens of scars hidden under his fur.

“Wing Commander?”

“Wikir, it’s Shield Spider breeding season. Word is it’s even worse this year given all they’ve had to eat. Which is why we’re helping out Liscor and the City Watch with this year’s culling. You know where I’m going with this?”

Several Drakes and Gnolls groaned. Wikir grinned.

“Vell gets her wish?”

“Exactly. Tomorrow, all the squads are sweeping the area around Liscor. Work your way down the road first, then sweep out from there. Each squad cleans at least four nests by the end of the day. Collect their shells and turn them in to the Adventurer’s Guild. The squad that does the best gets a night in Wishdrinks, on me. The squad that does the worst will also get a night of fun and relaxation—cleaning the barracks.”

That perked up the room, as intended. Embria didn’t mention that the squads would be doing this for at least two weeks, but Wikir got it. He nodded and flicked his ears at the [Lieutenants] and [Sergeants] under his direct command.

“Sounds like fun.”

“So says you. I’d rather fight Wyverns than Shield Spiders. Ever been covered by a hundred little spider babies?”

“No. And I don’t plan to. Burn the nest, Captain Pielt. If your group doesn’t have a strong [Mage] like mine…”

“Yes?”

[Captain] Pielt raised his brows. Wikir grinned.

“Enjoy picking baby spiders out of your earholes.”

“Go to hell.”

The other two [Captains] in the room, Vell and Igissi, laughed. Wikir grinned toothily, and one of the Drakes under Pielt’s command covered her eyes with her claws. Sergeant Fika shook her head despairingly.

“My vacation’s in two days! If I start my days off with spiders laying eggs in my nostrils, I will kill myself.”

Pielt turned to his subordinate as the table laughed even harder. He glared at Wikir and Vell.

“Think of the opportunities, Sergeant. You invite a few lovely ladies to Wishdrinks, and you won’t need to come back to a clean barracks tonight!”

Sergeant Fika glanced up.

“Lads, you fucking idiot. Sir. I’m no Turnscale.”

Embria glanced up. Pielt blinked, but then grinned. Vell stopped laughing abruptly, but no one save perhaps Embria and Lieutenant Kesa noticed.

“Sorry, Sergeant. Two lovely lads. Drakes or Gnolls for preferences?”

“As long as you can figure out which parts they’re supposed to have, I’ll settle for whatever you can get, sir. Just get our squad the most nests.”

More laughter. Pielt rolled his eyes, but good-naturedly. Wikir chuckled, then glanced back at Embria.

“Commander. Helping out the City Watch wouldn’t also be part of our attempt to make good with Liscor, would it? And help win an election?”

He looked innocently at Embria. She scowled and put down her butter knife. Ancestors take it, she’d forgotten the drama of yesterday for a second. That was really going to complicate today’s activities. Maybe.

“That’s right, Captain Wikir. And I’m afraid that you’re in charge of banging the drum and doing parade marches all today. It’s my day off. Try to rein in that Shopkeeper. Lism. But yes, we’re trying to convince people to vote him into the Council for that election. Just don’t say or do anything that’ll upset the civilians, got it?”

Wikir nodded. Vell stretched, looking annoyed.

“And here I’d nearly forgotten about that stupid election. Commander, you make it sound like that Lism Swifttail’s a problem. But he’s the one running against that Krshia Silverfang, right? What’s your problem with him?”

She glanced up the table. This time, Embria hesitated. She didn’t have to answer. But this was her command, and they knew her. Better to answer than not.

She looked down at her cup of tea and grimaced. Then Embria glanced up and checked both doors leading into the officers’ mess. She tilted her head; Sergeant Tlik got up and closed one of the doors that was partly ajar. The other officers sat up a bit and leaned in.

“It’s not that I’m against this election thing. The High Command is, and they’re livid that it’s happening, but they’d be fine if we elected good, law-abiding citizens to the Council, I think. Doesn’t matter what the Council does so long as it keeps Liscor safe, right?”

The officers sitting on both tables around her nodded. Embria sighed.

“I’m not even saying we’re wrong to be against that Gnoll, Krshia, and her proposals. Some of what she’s saying sounds good to me, but allowing the Antinium any concessions? No. Absolutely not.”

“Idiotic idea. I can’t believe Watch Captain Zevara’s going for it. I thought she had sense.”

Vell growled. Embria had her own opinion about Zevara that wasn’t germane to this conversation. She shook her head briskly.

“The terms are good. And I’ll speak with Watch Captain Zevara. But despite all that—and this is my opinion, not High Command’s—Lism is not our guy. He’s obnoxious, sycophantic, prejudiced against Gnolls as far as I can tell, and he’s going to lose. But the High Command trusts him, and I haven’t been able to convince them to let me approach Krshia instead.”

The table was silent. Most of the officers carefully covered their reactions, although a few, like Wikir and Vell, nodded openly. Pielt’s tail lashed under his table.

“Captain, you make it sound like he’s as bad as that Krshia Silverfang. But as far as I’ve seen, he’s been for the 4th Company since we came to Liscor. He’s given my boys discounts when we visit his store, and he’s the only person who’s stood up and told the truth about the Antinium.”

“True. Which is why we’re supporting him. But he’s not offering a good platform. Just one that says the Antinium are evil and everything’s fine. Which it isn’t. Have you seen the rent prices on rooms?”

“Double that of when I was here ten years back.”

One of the [Lieutenants] muttered into his tea. Embria nodded. Kesa popped another bean into her mouth and crunched it.

“Exactly. But we have orders to support him, and we have to. I wish we didn’t. Soldiers like Zel Shivertail never played politics. He said what was important. Stop the Antinium. Kill the Goblin Lord. Tying ourselves to someone else or meddling in this election is going to come back and bite all our tails. But we have to win.”

She looked around the table. The other officers sighed or muttered, but they all nodded. Vell leaned over, looking troubled, and poked Wikir.

“Hey, Wikir. That Gnoll [Shopkeeper]. She’s a big shot, yeah? What’re her odds on the Gnoll side of things? How many of them will see sense about the Antinium?”

Wikir coughed. He looked at Embria and shrugged.

“She’s honored Krshia, Commander. I can’t explain it too well, and I’m not running with the civilian crowd yet. They don’t trust me. But I do know Krshia. She’s smart. Got lots of authority. When she howls, a lot of Gnolls will follow, no matter what deal with the Antinium is going down.”

“Then maybe we have to get her to reconsider her stance on the Antinium thing.”

“And fund all her shiny projects how?”

“Tax the adventurers more? I’m all for expanding Liscor if that’s possible. I have an aunt who told me about the prices yesterday. And if she’s hurting for coin—”

The breakfast table erupted into several arguments. Embria quietly drank the rest of her tea as she listened to the pulse of her officers’ opinions. At last, she raised a claw and had silence.

“I’ll explore our options. Tomorrow. For now, keep an earhole open and wait for further orders from High Command. We’ll support this Lism and wait for more candidates to emerge. There are eight seats on the High Council unless anyone’s forgotten, and these two are fighting for the same district under that plan Krshia rolled out. Someone get me a map of those districts too.”

The Drakes and Gnolls nodded. Fika shook her head as she scratched at a patch of scarred, burned skin on the side of her face where the scales had never regrown.

“What do you want to bet it’s eight Gnolls versus eight Drakes on either side? Ancestors, we might have more Gnolls than Drakes on this year’s Council.”

Wikir turned his head down the table like the slow wrath of the mace he used. Which wasn’t slow at all in battle.

“And would that be a bad thing, Sergeant?”

Fika’s cheeks colored.

“Nossir! Not unless it means I wake up sharing my bunk space with an Antinium!”

Another laugh. Pielt covered for Fika, who was part of his mainly Drake squad.

“You just worry about getting our squad that table at Wishdrinks, Sergeant. I’ll see to it we walk out with two lovely companions. Drakes or Gnolls.”

Captain Vell smirked.

“You keep saying that, Pielt. But even if you got more nests than all the other squads—which you won’t—could you even get anyone to join you for a drink?”

Pielt glared at her.

“No problem, Vell. I’m as smooth on a tavern floor as I am on the battlefield.”

“Really? In that case, give me your best shot.”

Vell spread her arms, mockingly. The officers laughed, and Pielt grinned. He pushed back his plate, then leaned one arm on the table and gave Vell a full-toothed grin.

“Hey there, sweet-scales. I saw you checking out my tail. I’ve got two. Want to see the other one?”

Embria saw Vell’s eyes bulge, and then heard her guffaw. The Wing Commander smiled as the female side of the mess hall laughed, and some of Pielt’s male friends rolled their eyes.

“Dead gods, that’s your best, Pielt?”

“If it works, Vell…”

Pielt grinned around. Kesa snorted and leaned over to Vell. The Gnoll whispered loudly.

“He says that, but I’ve never seen a tail that short before.”

The table burst out into raucous laughter. Two of the male Drake [Captains] coughed as their morning tea went down the wrong tube. Pielt’s scales turned beet red. He opened his mouth to reply, and Embria decided it was time to cut short a potential argument. It was nearly time for her to go, anyways. She didn’t want to be late. So she put a snap into her tone as she stacked her cup on her plate.

“Lieutenant Kesa, stop impugning your commanding [Captain]’s authority. Captain Pielt, stop bringing up your failed attempts at romance. Find someone outside of the army or I’ll write you up for your inability to conduct interpersonal relationships.”

“Under what charge, Commander?”

The [Captain] looked hurt. Embria stared at him and replied, deadpan.

“Making me laugh my scales off.”

This time even Pielt joined in the laughter, and Embria considered it a job well done. She was standing back to bus her plates when Vell glanced up.

“You are one to talk, Commander.”

“What?”

Embria paused, one claw holding her plate. Captain Vell shrugged, apologetic.

“I’m just saying. I’ve heard your best, and Pielt’s a master [Seducer] compared to you. No offense to the class.”

“Oi, Vell. Commander Embria can’t be that bad.”

Another officer chortled. Vell only raised her brows. She looked teasingly at Embria, and the Drake felt an ominous prickle on her back. She’d known Vell for years. Even so, she couldn’t just walk away after hearing that. Embria tossed her plate back on the table.

“My game’s better than Pielt’s. I can guarantee you that, Vell.”

“I’m wide open, Commander. Or Pielt is. Come on, give us your opening line. Say you spot someone handsome across the bar—not Pielt, for instance. What do you say?”

Suddenly, it was Embria on the spot, and the Wing Commander couldn’t see a way out of it. Embarrassed, she cleared her throat. No problem. Casually, she walked over and put a hand on Pielt’s shoulder. She gave him a smile.

“Yo. Good looking. Are you part Selphid? Because I’d like you to get inside me tonight.”

Pielt stared up at her as if she were a Creler. Embria wavered. She looked around. The other officers weren’t laughing. They were just staring. Wikir reached for his cup and found it was empty. Mechanically, the Gnoll reached for a kettle and tried to fill his cup.

“You’d actually say that, Commander?”

“What’s wrong? Too forwards? Okay. Fine. How about this?”

Exasperated, Embria turned back to Pielt. He flinched as she leaned further down, treating him to another smile. Something charming, the kind of thing that would sweep him off his feet if Embria were interested in him.

“Hey there. Are you a Courier? Because you’ve been running through my mind ever since I laid eyes on you.”

She waited a beat. And then she winked. Pielt opened his mouth slightly. He gulped.

“I, uh—wow, Commander. That’s…terrible.”

“What? No it’s not.”

Embria looked around. No one else could meet her eyes, except Wikir. The tea cup he’d been filling from the kettle was slowly overflowing on the table. Embria stared at it.

“It’s not. Is it?”

Vell looked delighted. She gestured with a claw.

“One more. Come on, Commander.”

Embria hesitated. This time she abandoned the winking and just leaned on Pielt’s shoulder.

“You come from Salazsar? Because you’re a fine gem in my eyes.”

He froze. Just froze up in his seat. Embria searched his face for something, anything, then straightened. She glared around the room, daring anyone to say anything. They were silent.

“I’m going to take my day off. We’ll discuss this later, Captain Vell. The rest of you—you’ve got a job to do. Dismissed!”

She stalked out of the room, her tail twitching angrily. The officers watched her go. None of them, not even Vell, had the heart to laugh this time. Pielt stared back at his fellow [Captains]. It took him a few more gulps to make the words come out.

“Ancestors. The smile, the timing, the way she looked at me—everything was wrong there. How is that even possible?”

Vell sighed. She finished her last mouthfuls of breakfast.

“You know those sad losers who hang out in taverns and bars and buy anything with a pulse and a tail a drink? I’ve seen Commander Embria scare them away when she’s trying to be encouraging.”

“Dead gods. I hope she doesn’t try that on her date today.”

Someone else mumbled under his breath. Vell turned her head.

“You think she’s on a date? She didn’t say.”

“Well, she’s not wearing her armor. And she usually dresses up. Did you notice she was only wearing her practice gear? Normally she’s in full armor. Who’d she land with those lines?”

“Oh. That? It’s not—”

“It’s not a date. It’s her father.”

Wikir cut in quietly. He mopped the table with a napkin. The other officers went quiet. Lieutenant Kesa growled.

“You mean she still visits him? That’s too good for that coward.”

“Lieutenant, show some respect. That Drake saved our Commander’s life. He’s a former [Sergeant], even if—”

“Even if he’s a coward? He gave us one retreat order, Captain. A coward’s a coward no matter what. I’m not licking his boots even if he was a big shot. And if the Commander wants to waste time on his sorry tail—as if we’d just let him waltz back in after abandoning—”

Kesa’s growling voice turned into a yelp of pain as Vell kicked her in the stomach across the table. It wasn’t a light kick either. The [Captain] stared at her subordinate and hissed.

“Stow that shit, Lieutenant. Unless you want to go for a twenty-lap run around the walls again? If the Commander hears you, you’ll be scrubbing the toilets with your tail.”

“I just—”

Vell jerked her head sideways. The younger Gnoll [Sergeant] followed her glance towards Captain Wikir. Kesa’s ears flattened on her head, and she went quiet at once.

The oldest Gnoll at the table didn’t look at Kesa. Wikir calmly drank from his cup, and then spoke, as if reminiscing to the air in front of him.

“He got Garen Redfang, a former Gold-rank, even if he was a Goblin. He’s as good as I remember. And I was barely a [First Sergeant] when he retired. What Wing Commander Embria does is her business. You can’t choose your family. And if he’s a coward, then every single Drake in 4th Company will lose to a coward in a one-on-one duel.”

No one had a reply to that. After a long moment, Pielt bit into his fish.

“True that. My day off’s coming up. Birthday, actually. I almost wish it wasn’t. I’m going back to see my folks. My dad’s a Gnoll, and he’ll try to get me playing catch. I want to tell him it’s not my thing, but his idea of fun’s throwing around a ball for hours.”

The mood at the tables relaxed. Wikir grinned sheepishly, and the other Gnolls sighed, shaking their heads. Vell looked curious.

“You adopted, Pielt? You never said.”

“Nah. Fertility spell. One of those cross-species kinds. It works out well, but…you know? I think it hurts my old man when I don’t race after a ball. Just toss it to me. Don’t make me run for it.”

Pielt sighed. Sergeant Fika patted him on the back. Vell looked around; one of the youngest [Lieutenants], a Gnoll, looked frankly jealous of Pielt. She shrugged. What was there to say?

“I wonder what the Commander says to her father?”

Thoughtfully, Pielt stroked his chin with a claw and shrugged.

“Whatever she has to, probably. Gotta make it work, Vell. Gotta make it work. Pass the butter?”



——



Breakfast came and went in Liscor’s barracks. The 4th Company was having an easy time of it. At least compared to the quick meals that came and went during their time on campaign. They would be the first to describe their more relaxed schedules, frequent days off, and easy duties as luxurious. And that was because life was a subjective affair. If the 4th Company’s breakfast was luxurious, what could you call breakfast at The Wandering Inn?

Sinful? Decadent? Hedonistic? The Wandering Inn was gaining a reputation as having some solid cooking. But that wasn’t what propelled the Drake [Guardsman] up the hill. He hadn’t even bothered to wait for the teleportation door to activate. Relc Grasstongue rubbed his claws as he pushed open the door.

“Oh boy. Oh boy. Ohboyohboyohboy—”

Relc’s partner, Klbkch, walked in through the magical door from Liscor a minute after Relc had arrived. The Antinium glanced around; Relc was already sitting at a table.

“Klb, get over here!”

Relc waved a claw excitedly. He was sitting at a table near the front of the inn. The Players of Celum were warming up on the stage, and some of the [Actors] and the regular guests were having their breakfast. Klbkch walked over to Relc and saw someone bustling out of the kitchen. Erin Solstice herself set down a big plate of pancakes on the table and a cup full of blue fruit juice in front of Relc.

“Here you go! Blue fruit juice, fresh! Hi, Klb! It’s great to see you! It’s been ages! Come in! What do you want to eat?”

“It is good to see you as well, Erin. I would like to inquire—are there any Acid Flies on your menu yet?”

Klb glanced at the cup Relc was lovingly caressing. Erin shook her head.

“Not yet. But we’ve laid traps, and I’ll let you know at once when we have enough.”

“Ah. In that case, perhaps a fish-based dish? I had a quite enjoyable fillet last time.”

“You know what? I think I have that exact fillet still in a cupboard. Drassi! Get that fillet and some condiments for Klbkch! Blue fruit juice, Klbkch?”

“Thank you. And perhaps a pitcher?”

Klbkch indicated Relc. Erin turned to look and saw Relc tilting his cup up. The Drake licked his lips.

“Blue fruit juice! I’ve missed this so much!”

He was nearly crying as he gulped down the sweet cup of juice. Erin nodded and waved an arm at Drassi. She turned to Relc, smiling.

“As good as you remember?”

“Better. Better. This is amazing. I can’t believe I went a winter without it. Hey, can I buy a flask of it or something for work? I’ll have a pitcher. How much is—aw. You upped the prices? Fine.”

Relc spotted the sign above Erin’s bar. She made a face.

“Sorry. Lyonette controls the prices. I can definitely get you a flask, though.”

“You’re the best. And these pancakes are great! You’ve got to try one, Klb!”

Relc stuffed half a pancake onto one fork and swallowed all of it in one bite. Erin watched with fascination; Klbkch deliberately averted his gaze.

“I am allergic to wheat-based products, as you may not recall, Relc. Although…my Queen did mention she removed my gluten intolerance after my last body was developed. Or didn’t she? I would have to ask her.”

The Antinium paused to think. Relc eyed him.

“You don’t remember what your current body does? That’s weird.”

“I did not qualify that as important information. Eating pancakes is not high on my list of priorities.”

“Because you’ve never had these pancakes.”

“Hm. Would they then shift my entire perspective? Very well. I will try one.”

“Hey! These are mine! Get your own.”

Relc protectively covered his plate. Klbkch stared at him. Then he looked at Erin. She beamed at him.

“It’s so good you’re back. Both of you.”

“That is a highly subjective and generous opinion. Thank you.”

“Yeah.”

Relc reached for his cup, which Drassi had just refilled. He drank half of it, sighed, and then, suddenly, looked up. He looked around the inn slowly, and then focused on Erin. And to her surprise, to Klbkch’s surprise as well, Relc put down his fork and looked seriously at the young woman.

“Thanks for letting me come for breakfast, Erin. Seriously. I won’t stay long. So if you need me to go…”

He glanced at the stairs. Erin followed his gaze and line of thought, and she blinked. She looked at Relc, then at Klbkch, who silently shook his head, and gazed at Relc.

“What? No. It’s fine, Relc. You’re free to be here. If…anyone has a problem, he can just eat in his room. But he said it’s fine.”

“Well, thanks. I appreciate it. And I really missed your cooking. It’s good stuff, these pancakes. I wish I could make them. Klb misses this place too.”

Relc gestured around at the inn. Erin stared at him, then smiled. She looked at Klbkch. The Antinium was eying his partner as if Relc were some strange new species.

“That is correct. I do appreciate the ambiance and cooking. Although, I have to point out that pancakes are not, by and large, considered high cuisine, Relc.”

“How would you know? You’ve never eaten them.”

Erin grinned. Klb’s antennae twitched.

“And you cannot cook them. Why is that?”

“Yeah, why? Pancakes are easy. I could teach you how to do them myself.”

The young woman looked at the Drake [Guardsman]. Relc grimaced as he filled his cup for the third time.

“I’m just no good, Erin. Believe me.”

“No one’s that bad, Relc. If I walk you through it—”

“I nearly burned down my kitchen last time I tried to make pancakes.”

Relc eyed Erin as he took a small sip from his cup. She blinked. Her eyes slid sideways to Klbkch. This time, the Antinium nodded. Erin digested this fact.

“Okay, no cooking. How are you so bad at it?”

“I dunno. I don’t eat at home. Why are you so good at it? It’s all oil and fires and stuff the moment you light a stove. I nearly died when I tried to make pasta last week.”

“How did you—? You know what? Fire hazard or not, I’m willing to take this risk. We can make pasta in the kitchen right after this. You, me, a healing potion on standby…”

The smile on Erin’s face was infectious. Relc grinned, and Klbkch smiled politely. But the Drake cast one eye towards the window and shook his head.

“I’d love to. Really, Erin. But I don’t think you want to build a new inn—although you’re sort of missing a third floor, so it wouldn’t be too bad. But I can’t either way. I have an appointment. Today’s actually the start of my days off. Klb and I just finished a night shift.”

He yawned as if to prove that fact. Erin raised her eyebrows.

“Wow. Maybe I should have served dinner. Fillet’s a dinner, though. What do you have planned after this, then?”

“Er…just hanging out with my kid. You know.”

Relc shifted in his chair. Erin gave him the blankest look possible until a light went off in her head.

“You mean, Wing Commander Embria? The Drake with the red scales? The one who’s really, really angry?”

“Uh. Yeah. That’s her. You’ve met her before.”

“A few times. What’s she like?”

“Good. Good. I, uh, well, we do this every week. Sometimes it’s hard to get the dates to line up, but it usually works out. She’s her own boss, at least of 4th Company, so she can choose her days off. And I—well, I’m going to meet with her after this. All day.”

Relc slowly bit into the second-to-last pancake. Erin studied his expression.

“Sounds like fun.”

“Yeah. Of course. Why wouldn’t it be? Do you, uh, want to come with?”

“Me? Or Klbkch?”

Relc hesitated.

“Both?”

The two looked at each other. Erin bit her lip. Klbkch was the first to respond.

“I believe that would be unwise. Your daughter has made her feelings about my presence very clear on fifteen different occasions.”

“Yeah. But she only says that. Come on, Klb, buddy. It’d be fun.”

“I believe that statement is incorrect on every level conceivable. And I do not believe Erin would have fun either. This is a prearranged time with you and your offspring, Relc.”

“Yeah. I don’t want to get in the way.”

“Right. She probably wouldn’t like that.”

Relc slumped into his seat and sighed. Erin looked from him to Klbkch. The Antinium was studying his partner. Erin coughed.

“So…I’m sure it’ll be fine. You’re her dad, right?”

“Yup.”

“Her actual dad.”

“Uh huh.”

“You’re her father and everything. You. Relc.”

“You keep saying that, Erin. Yes, she’s my kid.”

Relc looked up. Erin stared at him, unblinking, until the Drake looked down at his plate. He played with the scraps. Erin pondered Relc for a moment.

“So why are you trying to avoid her?”

The table fell silent. Relc silently ate the last of his pancake bits. He pushed back his plate and looked at the nearly empty pitcher of blue fruit juice. Erin stared at it, and then at him. The Drake [Guardsman] stared ahead. Then he shrugged heavily. His huge shoulders slumped.

“There’s not much to talk about. Or rather, we talk about the same things, Erin. That’s all. It feels like a pain for her to do this every week. I don’t think she likes me that much, honestly. Can’t say I blame her.”

“Then why does she do it?”

“I don’t know. Duty? She’s big on duty. Which reminds me. I’d better not be late. Thanks for the juice.”

Relc stood up. He fished in his belt pouch and put down some coins. He pointed at the pitcher.

“Can I get a flask to go? Later? Sorry, but I should go. I’ll come back later for dinner if I’m free. Or pick it up after. Thanks for the meal, Erin. It was great.”

“Sure. Uh, good luck!”

Erin raised her voice. Relc was already heading towards the door. She stared at his back as he pulled open the magical door and vanished. Then she looked at Klbkch.

“That was weird. What’s that all about? Has he been like that every week?”

The Antinium nodded absently.

“Their ongoing arguments have featured heavily in Relc’s conversations with me. I gather that she wants him to rejoin Liscor’s army. He refuses to. Hence the quandary.”

“Oh. Do you think…”

Erin trailed off. She stared at the door through which Relc had gone. She half-rose, and then seemed to decide to sit. The table was quiet as Klbkch pushed back his empty plate. After a minute, he looked up seriously at Erin and opened his mandibles.

“After due consideration of the risks, I will have a pancake after all, Erin. What is the appropriate amount of syrup and butter?”

The young woman blinked. And then she beamed, Relc temporarily forgotten.

“Klbkch, you’re in for a treat. Drassi! Butter and syrup on the side! Pancake for Klbkch! Hey, wait. Do you know how to make pancakes?”

“The desire to create a pancake has never occurred within me in my entire life.”

“Today’s your lucky day.”

“Apparently?”



——



Liscor, in the morning, the real morning in which most people got up, not just the eternal early-risers, was busy. The city was in the midst of late spring. Life was blooming across the continent. And excitement abounded.

On the streets, Lism and Krshia’s supporters engaged in shouting matches in the early morning. The Drake [Shopkeeper], severely on the back foot after the drama of yesterday, tried to make his case to a city full of people. The 4th Company marched. But so did the Antinium. And the giant who led them attracted every eye.

There was something to see everywhere. In her inn, Erin tried to teach Klbkch and Mrsha how to make pancakes. In her inn, Lyonette stopped a fire. Three times. In her office, Zevara got some very irate [Messages] from a lot of cities. And the High Command. Olesm got back with Pisces from a night in Pallass and an adventure involving a [Librarian] to find out…everything…had changed. In her shop, Octavia paid the protection fee and sat under her counter. Her shop was closed.

And among it all, two Drakes met on a small street outside of an apartment. Theirs was not an important, exciting event. It was quiet. In fact, neither one said anything for a second when they met.

He was big. Not just tall; he had height, but the impression he gave was of musculature, not stature. His scales were light-green.

She was shorter than him, but only by a bit. And she had muscles, but she didn’t give off the same impression. If her posture and body indicated anything, it was her profession. He slouched; her back was straight as the spears that neither one carried at the moment. Her scales were crimson, vibrant.

Neither Drake looked particularly comfortable out of their gear and in casual clothing. And their idea of casual clothing was…Relc stared at his daughter’s cream-colored tunic and leggings. She eyed his slightly syrup-spotted front and worn clothes.

“Hey.”

“Good morning. You’re late.”

Relc started guiltily.

“Oh. Sorry. I, uh, had breakfast. At The Wandering Inn. Uh, how was your day? Just get up?”

He smiled hopefully. Embria eyed him. Her lips did not feel the need to reciprocate the smile.

“I’ve been up for a while.”

“Really? Doing what?”

“Morning training. Or have you forgotten?”

“Uh…”

Relc scratched his neck-spines. Embria stared at him silently. When he didn’t respond, she jerked her head challengingly.

“Never mind. Let’s go. Do you have anywhere you want to go today?”

“I could go to a few spots. I have some shopping to do. What about you?”

Relc trailed after Embria. She shook her head and slowed down to accommodate his amble.

“I’m free. Where to?”

“Market—no, wait, that’s probably crowded. Let’s go to the [Trader]’s stalls.”

“Fine by me.”

The two proceeded along the street. It wasn’t anything like the quick march that Embria was used to, and she kept stepping too fast for Relc, whose leisurely stroll sped up for her. The two Drakes glanced at each other and both sought for conversation topics. Relc was first.

“So. Heck of a thing. These elections, huh?”

“They’re something. You aren’t for them, are you?”

The younger Drake eyed her father. Relc held up his claws.

“Hey. I’m staying out of it. I’m surprised Captain Z backed it, to be honest. She usually says the Watch should stay out of politics.”

“I’d like to know why she’s trying to push for the elections myself. I understand what she wants, but is this the way to do it?”

Relc gave a shrug that was the opposite of eloquent. He gazed at Embria.

“So…I heard you were marching for that Lism guy. The army’s not for the elections or Krshia, huh?”

Her regular pace faltered a beat, and then picked up.

“I had orders. From High Command. I’m carrying them out. You know how it is.”

“Sure. Sure.”

Embria coughed.

“…If I had the choice, I wouldn’t be involved at all. But I have to do my job. And Shopkeeper Lism’s right. I’m not saying I disagree with the idea to expand Liscor, but having Antinium aid…did your partner tell you about his Hive’s plans, by any chance?”

She glanced swiftly up and to the side. Relc smiled crookedly.

“Klb? He doesn’t tell me anything. Well, usually. These days he complains about his subordinates. Pawn and the others. But he doesn’t talk about stuff like that. Suits me.”

“And it doesn’t bother you? His proposal?”

“What? Paying for more buildings in exchange for making the Hive bigger? Works for me.”

“But they’ll expand the Hive.”

“And Captain Z will double the Watch. We could probably use both, after the siege. Right?”

Embria opened her mouth to respond. After a second, she closed it and kept walking. The two walked down one street and then the next. They passed by arguing Drakes and Gnolls. Embria eyed them. She looked twice when one of the Drakes threw a punch and a Gnoll raised a fist.

“Shouldn’t you stop that?”

Relc picked at his teeth.

“Off duty. Besides, it’s just a fight. Long as there’s no blades, it should be good. It’s healthy to punch things. It was like this just a bit ago, remember? When that Numbtongue guy entered the city?”

“I remember.”

The tone in Embria’s voice passed Relc completely by, or he ignored it. He nodded. Then he brushed at a crumb on his front and brightened.

“I tell you, though, it was good being back at the old inn. Ever since that thing with the Goblins, it’s been hard to visit. I think she’s forgiven me; she didn’t throw a knife at my head, anyways. Breakfast was good.”

He smacked his lips together absently. Embria just looked at him.

“You mean, during the siege?”

Relc paused. He looked at Embria, and the two shared a long glance. After a second, he kept walking and shook his head.

“Oh. Well, that too. I meant the first thing with the Goblins. And the other thing with that small one. Rags or something.”

“What thing? Rags?”

“The first time I killed some Goblins. Cut their heads off. Erin really didn’t like that. The second time—I was sort of a jerk to a little Goblin who always came in. Erin kicked me out after that. I didn’t really go back until recently. Haven’t gotten into a fight this time, and I’m trying not to. They’ve got blue juice there now.”

The Wing Commander stared at her father. She opened her mouth, then closed it and sighed. The worst part was that she could decipher some of what Relc had just said from previous anecdotes.

“Why do you want to go there anyways? A Goblin-loving—what’s that inn got to offer that the Tailless Thief doesn’t?”

Relc looked surprised.

“Besides price? Besides the free plays, which are awesome and the really good food? That, uh, Peslas guy who runs the Tailless Thief just serves Drake food. Erin serves new stuff, and really good stuff. I love it.”

He licked his lips. Embria smiled.

“You do like to eat. But why not cook it yourself? You could probably get the class.”

“I can’t cook, kid. You know that.”

“Still? How long has it been?”

Relc counted on his claws and then shrugged.

“I just can’t get a hang of it. But I do have hobbies.”

“Like…?”

“Well, here we are.”

They’d turned down another street during the course of their conversation onto Trader’s End, but not the ritzy section with the highest-leveled spaces.

This part of Trader’s End was filled with more [Traders] than anything, and you shopped here if you had less of a budget. At least this street was mercifully free of the arguments enveloping most of the city. Relc explained eagerly as he took Embria from stall to stall, clearly searching for one in particular.

“I tried gardening. Didn’t work out. But I’m into these puzzle-things. They’re—oh, look! There they are!”

He pointed excitedly. Embria saw one [Trader] had a display full of…she could only call them rejected [Blacksmith] pieces. Pieces of bent metal, odd shapes, some made of wood, some metal, a few decorative, but all very, very strange looking. They weren’t decorations. And as Relc showed her one excitedly, Embria saw they were meant to come apart. Only, it was the doing that would be the challenge.

“Take a look. I’ve got like six of these, and I work on them during my patrols. And at night. And when I wake up. See? I know this one by heart.”

He had a tiny pair of what looked like bent, intertwined wires in his claws. It was two parts, joined at the center with a tiny little gap, but the two pieces of wire were twisted so that it seemed you’d never get them apart. But Relc confidently held the puzzle up by one claw. He flicked the little wire puzzle expertly, and the connected pieces flew apart.

Embria blinked. Relc caught the piece before it could fly off and joined them together in a moment. He turned to the [Trader], a Gnoll with spectacles, who looked approving.

“Not bad. You’ve done some beginner puzzles, hrm?”

“I’ve done advanced and even expert ones. Do you have any of the Wistram head-scratcher puzzles? The last female [Trader] who was in said sometimes you have the really complex ones.”

The Gnoll grinned as Embria picked up the pieces of wire, bemused.

“I’ve got a few very hard ones. Would you like to see?”

“Yes! Ooh. Oooh. How much is that one?”

As the Gnoll brought out some of the ‘special’ puzzles from below his counter, Embria gazed at her father and then the puzzle she was holding. She stared at the puzzle and tried to copy what Relc had done. But when she flicked it, the little wire pieces just spun around without separating.

Frowning, Embria tried to figure out how the two pieces were supposed to disconnect—the gap didn’t seem large enough, but maybe if she twisted it so the thin side was going through…no, that didn’t work…why had he flicked it?

She was so engrossed in the puzzle that she didn’t notice time flying by. Or the Drake who suddenly appeared behind her.

“Embria?”

The Wing Commander turned. She blinked down at a shorter Drake, around her age—no, slightly younger. She had bright yellow scales and a huge smile. The Drake beamed at her.

“I thought so! Only one Drake I know has scales like yours. Embria, hi! It’s me! Drassi! Remember me?”

“Um. Hello?”

Embria stared blankly at Drassi. The Drake wasn’t familiar to her, but she acted like she was. She peered at the puzzle Embria was holding.

“I didn’t know you were into those metal puzzles! They’re really hard. But there’s an entire group of people who love to solve them. Especially the magic ones. Apparently even Archmages get stumped with some! I’m not one for puzzles myself, but I hear [Thieves] like them too. Say, Embria, how has it been? I’ve seen you about, but you’ve always been on the job, and we never had a chance to catch up!”

The words washed over Embria like rain. The Drake [Commander] opened her mouth for a word in edgewise, and had to wait for her moment.

“I’m sorry, Miss. But are you mistaking me? I don’t remember you, I’m afraid.”

“You don’t? But we were friends! At least, I thought so.”

Drassi looked heartbroken. She glanced over Embria’s shoulder at Relc and brightened.

“Hey Relc! It’s me, Drassi! I was just at the inn! You know me, and you know I used to know Embria, right?”

Relc turned. He had a flashing, half-ghostly puzzle in one claw, and the [Trader] was showing him another one that was invisible—Embria could barely see the outlines as some dust or dirt covered it. Relc blinked.

“What? Drassi? Hey. You knew Embria? Wait…did you?”

He frowned. The [Gossip] looked crushed twice-over.

“I did! We haven’t seen each other for over a decade but—don’t you remember? When we were just kids? Embria, you came to Liscor with Relc back when he was just starting out as a [Guardsman], right? And you and I used to play in the streets! We got into tons of trouble! Heck, you and Selys used to know each other! Any of this ringing a bell?”

It was…vaguely familiar. Embria frowned. She could remember growing up in Liscor after Relc had left the army. Until she’d joined it. But it had only been for a handful of years. She didn’t remember Drassi. Although she did vaguely recall the same loudmouthed, cheerful voice the longer it went on.

“I—maybe I did? I’m sorry, but everything before I enlisted’s a bit of a blur. My apologies, Miss Drassi.”

The Drake laughed good-naturedly.

“It’s just Drassi! But I’d love to sit and talk, Embria. I just got off my shift. Do you have time? Hey, we could sit at The Wandering Inn and catch up! How about it?”

The offer was vaguely tempting. But—Embria glanced at her father. Relc was inspecting his puzzle while watching her out of the corner of one eye. She hesitated and shook her head after a moment.

“I’m sorry, Drassi. But I’m busy today. Maybe another time?”

She smiled apologetically at Drassi. The Drake didn’t look too put out.

“That’s totally fine. I’m actually shopping for some bug-killing traps myself. I have this infestation. Bad wood in my apartment. Know where I can get any charms?”

“My friend six stalls down has a number of charms.”

The Gnoll [Trader] leaned into the conversation. Drassi grinned.

“Really? Thanks! I’ll check him out. Embria, Relc, let’s talk again sometime, okay? Don’t be a stranger! And don’t forget me!”

Bemused, Embria waved a claw as Drassi headed off. Relc grunted to himself as he peered into one side of his puzzle.

“She’s cool. I talk to her on my patrols sometimes. Although, I get in trouble if I talk for too long. You did use to know her, you know.”

“I sort of remember. But it’s ages ago now. I don’t know anyone in the city.”

“Huh.”

Embria watched Drassi disappear into the crowd. Then she turned back to the stall. The Gnoll was smiling as Relc cursed over the puzzle he was holding.

“Like it? Only two Archmages have completed it. Feor and Nailihuaile. Amerys doesn’t count; she blasted hers apart. You can try as long as you like. Solve it here and you can take it with you.”

“Hah! I can do that. Just give me a second. Hey, kid, do you, uh, think this thing goes here?”

“Hm?”

Embria was still watching Drassi. Then she noticed a Gnoll mother walking from stall to stall with a young child. She watched the Gnoll grabbing his mother’s hand excitedly and pulling her past him to look at a display of colorful toys the next stall over.

“Damn! This one’s impossible! There’s no way to move this thing!”

Relc complained. The [Trader] laughed.

“You’ve barely even unlocked half of the functions, yes? There’s a lot more you need to do to even come close. How about it? I can show you some more if you’d like. All equally hard or harder! There’s one that not even Wistram’s mages have figured out how to open yet. But I’m told that the creator swears on a truth spell that it’s doable!”

“Really?”

Relc’s eyes lit up. Then he glanced to one side at his daughter. She noticed his stare at last and looked up. The [Guardsman] hesitated, then shook his head.

“Eh. I’ll get one later. This is boring. It’s boring, right, kid? Let’s go somewhere else.”

He jerked a thumb down the street. Embria started.

“What? No. Go on, try your puzzle.”

“You’re not into them, though. I won’t take up your time.”

“No, it’s fine…why not get one? For your patrols, at least.”

Embria smiled, and it wasn’t too forced. Relc stared at her, and then turned back to the [Trader].

“Alright. I can’t afford whatever that stupid magic one is. How about a good, expert-level one? I can spend…”

A few minutes later, he counted out some gold and silver into the [Trader]’s paw and walked away with three small puzzles, all mechanical and magic-less. Relc seemed happy, although Embria was mystified.

“You had to have spent at least a few day’s pay on that. Maybe a week’s! How much do Senior Guardsman earn per week?”

“Eh…enough. Look, I like these things.”

Relc answered evasively. He walked down the street, and both he and Embria heard Drassi’s cheerful voice as she talked to the [Trader] with charms on display. Relc paused as he watched Drassi.

“You really don’t remember Drassi?”

He looked at Embria. She shrugged, embarrassed.

“I don’t. I wish I did, but all I remember is the voice, and not even that.”

“Really? You kids used to get into all kinds of trouble. I remember that. I can’t believe I didn’t…well, you weren’t here long. Hey. Why don’t you catch up with her at the inn? I could sit and watch a play or something.”

Surprised, Embria blinked up at her father. He shrugged in answer to the question in her eyes.

“You don’t have to hang out with me. If you’re busy. I know being a Wing Commander’s hard work, and you only get so many days off…”

And for a second, she wavered. Embria stared at Drassi’s wagging tail, then at Relc’s smile. Her expression firmed, and she shook her head.

“It’s fine. Did you have anywhere else you wanted to go? I didn’t have a plan for today.”

“Well…”



——



The second stop they came to was a shop that smelled like animals. Because it was, in fact, inhabited by animals. Lots of them. Embria pushed open the door, sneezed, and then saw a cat glaring at her from its window perch in the sun. The Gnoll running the counter shouted he’d be out from the back, and a number of dogs barked. That set off the birds. And a sheep. Embria stared around, and then at Relc. He grinned.

“I thought about getting a pet, too. That’d be cool, right? I could get a big dog and have it run down [Thieves] while we’re on the job. One of the Senior Guardsman has an attack dog he’s allowed to take on patrols. He never has to run.”

“You want a dog.”

Embria eyed the animals wandering the floor. They were either all amazingly well-trained, or the owner cleaned up after them. Relc nodded.

“It would be cool, right? Dogs run. I can run. Dogs like food. I like food. It’d be this thing. Anyways, I’m just checking them out. But if you get a good impression—hey! Elirr! It’s me!”

Relc waved at the Gnoll who came out of a tattered curtain in the back. The Gnoll froze when he saw Relc. Then he groaned.

“For the last time, Senior Guardsman Relc. I will not sell you a trained attack sheep—”

He protectively moved in front of the one sheep in the room. Relc scratched the back of his neck, avoiding Embria’s pointed gaze.

“I’m not interested in sheep. I’m just looking for a dog. And I’ve got my, uh, daughter here! This is Embria. Embria, Elirr’s a [Beast Master].”

“[Beast Trainer].”

“Yeah, that thing. Say, do you have a dog with really big teeth? And how fast do they run?”

The long-suffering sigh that Elirr emitted sounded almost familiar to Embria. She’d heard it from a number of Relc’s colleagues. But the Gnoll soon had a number of dogs wandering the floor, and she was impressed at how well they obeyed even Relc’s commands. The Drake bent to scratch ears and ask who liked the taste of [Thieves]—Embria stood back and watched.

“You are Senior Guardsman Relc’s daughter, Wing Commander? I recognize both of you, but I hardly put the pieces together until now.”

Elirr’s voice made Embria turn. She smiled at him, and the older Gnoll smiled back. He only smelled a bit like wet dog, and if you got to know Gnolls, you understood that was a distinct possibility anyways.

“That’s right. I’m back home on duty. I haven’t been back to the city in…years.”

The Gnoll’s gaze sharpened.

“Of course, the army hasn’t. But Liscor is pleased to have the army back defending us, yes? Your company saw fighting during the siege.”

Embria nodded, surprised. Not everyone gave them credit. But the Gnoll’s smile seemed genuine. He gestured to the menagerie. Relc was going from pet to pet, and he was popular with dogs. Not so much with the cats, who flipped their tails up at him.

“Do you wish to see the animals? You need not buy them; they enjoy a good scratching. And, ah, is your father serious about a dog? I have had a number of odd questions from him, yes?”

The Drake smiled ruefully.

“Sorry about that. I don’t know if he’s serious. I like cats and dogs. My dad—my father prefers dogs, though. He doesn’t get along with cats.”

She pointed. Embria turned back to see Relc glowering at a cat perched at head-height. The cat was hissing at him. Relc hissed back.

“Bleh. You want some? Bring it.”

That was the wrong move, apparently. The cat leapt and slashed at Relc’s extended tongue. The Drake staggered back, howling. Elirr sighed. Embria covered her face.

“That cat slashed my tongue!”

Relc’s first reaction after a drop of healing potion had been used was outrage. Embria put her claws on her hips.

“What are you doing, picking a fight with a cat? And how did it injure you, anyways? You’ve got two defensive Skills for your scales alone!”

“My scales, not my tongue!”

Relc moaned. Elirr was apologetic.

“I’m afraid Miss Twekla is also a bit more dangerous than the average housecat. Which is already a bloodthirsty murderer. She’s trained to kill pests, and her claws are sharper than normal. Please don’t tease her.”

“Do you sell cats for stew?”

The Drake glared at the cat. Miss Twekla hissed at him and leapt out of Elirr’s arms. She disappeared among her friends. The Gnoll shook his head.

“No one eats my animals. Or dogs in Liscor. Or cats. Unless they poop outside the litter box.”

He eyed his charges. They looked innocently back at him and raised their backsides, as if for inspection. Embria had to laugh. Elirr shook his head.

“I wonder how much they do know—Guardsman Relc, do you want a dog? You’ve seen all the ones I have, although I could hold any puppies that are birthed. It is a chore training them, but they are lifelong friends, yes?”

He looked at Relc. The [Guardsman] looked like he was seriously considering it.

“Maybe. You know, it’s a big thing, but I could see myself having a dog.”

“Oh come on, Dad.”

Embria was exasperated. She poked Relc in the side, eliciting a yelp. He looked at her, and she folded her arms.

“You’ve never had a pet. And you’ll forget to feed the poor animal. You don’t need a dog anyways; you can barely spend one day out of the week with me.”

“That is a consideration. Hrr. I do ask that my pet owners be able to care for their animals. If you weren’t taking this dog with you on patrol, it would be an issue.”

Elirr bent to pet one of the war hounds that had wandered up. Relc bent to pet it too.

“Yeah, well, I wasn’t going to leave it alone. I guess I have to ask Klbkch for his opinion. But he likes animals. I think. In theory. These are good dogs, though. Right? You hate cats, don’t you, pal?”

The dog panted in agreement. Embria had to smile. Relc cast her a side-ways glance.

“Why don’t you take one, kid? You could raise a dog yourself. Worth a shot?”

Elirr looked up hopefully. Embria blinked at the dog, who had rolled onto its back and revealed that it was a he.

“I do have good hounds trained in a number of roles, from tracking to combat, Wing Commander. Even cats who can pull their weight in adventuring teams, believe it or not. Birds…”

Embria cut him off with a polite, apologetic smile.

“I’m sure, Mister Elirr. But I’m afraid that we’re not allowed pets in the army.”

She saw her father frown. Relc leaned on a counter, accidentally pushing a cat off the side. He ignored the yowl of hatred.

“Commander-ranks are. Getting a cat would be weird, but you could get a war dog instead of me.”

“No. I really don’t think it’s a good idea.”

Embria straightened. She would have loved to pet the dog more, but she had a sense that Relc was about to be attacked by a bunch of cats if he stayed any longer. Elirr nodded, but Relc was insistent.

“Why not? They’re good company. You could get one that can bite legs off. One of those super-big ones, the size of wolves. Or a Carn Wolf. Can you train those, Elirr?”

“Not unless you’re willing to pay the food bills.”

The Gnoll muttered. He lifted up a small terrier and offered it to Embria. She hesitated. The Gnoll’s smile was welcoming. But then Embria closed her eyes.

“Animals die in battle first. I’m fine. Thank you, Mister Elirr, really. But I can’t.”

And that was that. Elirr nodded. He gestured to the shop.

“If you would like to stay, feel free. The animals do like company, and I can’t be everywhere. Just, please. Don’t keep the doors open. The cats like to think they can come back whenever they please. They’re incorrigible.”

Much to Embria’s surprise, she did stay for half an hour longer, to inspect some birds with Relc and watch as a cat projectile-urinated on him from above. After Relc had sponged off the worst of it with some water, they left the shop. Two cats followed them out; Relc tossed them back inside. He grinned at Embria, and she smiled back. Relc pointed down the street.

“Hey. You want to get lunch? My treat. I want to show you a cool drink.”

“Sure. But if it’s that blue fruit drink you’ve been harping about…”

“What? No, no. Yes. Come on. It’s great, I promise.”

Relc led the way down the street. Embria followed him, a step behind now. She saw Relc humming to himself, pleased as could be despite the dampness on one shoulder. She stared at his swinging arm, and then her own.

She looked at her claw. It twitched. Embria looked ahead at Relc’s claws. She reached out hesitantly. Then she lowered her arm.

And she followed him down the street without another word.

It was just a memory.



——



The Wandering Inn had a lunch crowd. In fact, the lunch crowd was big. Apparently, there had been a near-fire, but only the inn’s regulars were disappointed they’d missed that. The rest were here to debate the ongoing election issue. It seemed the Council would be forced to vote on it! And what if they voted no?

Embria and Relc sat removed from it all. They were having lunch, and Embria found herself enjoying it. The blue fruit drink was indeed blue, and such a vivid color that she was immediately uneasy about it. But the taste was as sweet as Relc had claimed, and Embria found herself drinking it with a will. Although she did water hers.

The two were having a slice of Erin’s pizza, another novel taste. Embria picked apart her first slice, then watched as Relc devoured two in quick succession. She had to admire the utilitarian nature of the slice, and even the Players of Celum performing in the back.

“They’re getting better. They’re not nearly as good as the original crew, but this new cast is doing all kinds of fun stuff. They even let you perform some of the roles as the lead while the others do a scene some nights! It’s great!”

Relc was clearly happy to watch the performers on stage. It was all Drathian to Embria, but she listened to him talk about a number of ‘plays’ that made no sense to her. He pointed at the blue fruit juice as she helped herself to another cup.

“You like it? It’s good, right?”

“I do like it. Thanks for dragging me here. It was your first good idea today.”

Embria slyly looked at Relc over the brim of her cup. He mock-bristled.

“Hey! I have plenty of good ideas! Just ask Klb! Not cooking was one of them. You see those burn marks?”

He jerked his thumb towards the kitchen. Embria had to agree.

“Okay. The puzzles were interesting. I had no idea you liked those. Honestly, though. A dog? How long would you keep one for before it died or ran off?”

Relc looked embarrassed.

“It was just a thought. I thought it would be a fun pal, you know? I wouldn’t mistreat it.”

That was…true. Embria had to admit, she couldn’t see Relc deliberately neglecting a dog, or even forgetting to feed it really. A fish? Definitely. A cat? Probably on purpose. But not a dog. She hesitated. Something about it did bug her, though.

“You don’t need a dog. I don’t need a dog or a cat. Or a pet. They’re a distraction for me, and if you got one, it would get in the way if—”

Too late. She bit her tongue. Relc’s convivial gaze sharpened.

“If what? If I…rejoin the army?”

Embria didn’t reply. She was gripping her leg with one claw under the table. She shouldn’t have said it. But it was too late now, and Relc was glowering.

“Yeah, I guess I wouldn’t be allowed a pet, being a lowly [Sergeant]. If I rejoined the army. Which I won’t. Although, now that you mention it—it sorta seems shitty, doesn’t it? No pets, no regular days off, fighting and dying without coming back to Liscor and forgetting all your old friends—hey, it’s almost like there’s more to life than fighting and nearly dying every week.”

He glared at his drink. Embria folded her arms, feeling a spark of indignation flare up in her chest.

“I didn’t bring it up once. That was an accident. You don’t need to bite my tail off.”

“Oh, sure it was. But you keep thinking it’s going to happen, don’t you? And I didn’t see you turning your tail up at any of my hobbies. What’s wrong with them? I’m retired, kid.”

“I didn’t say they were—Senior Guardsman is not retirement, father.”

A note of heat entered Embria’s tone. Relc’s was already as hot as the fireplace. It wasn’t that this was coming out of the blue. It was continuing a discussion—an argument—a quarrel, that they’d had week after week. Both knew what was coming. Both couldn’t stop it.

“It is for me. I’m never going back. Stop suggesting it. Why do you keep wanting me to, anyways? It’s not like I was ever more than a [Sergeant]. That’s nothing in our army.”

“You weren’t just a [Sergeant], and you know it. If you asked—”

“They’d welcome me with a huge banquet and give me a crown? Fat chance. You think it’s great being in the army? Who’s got you marching up and down for Lism, huh? Fun job, that.”

Relc slowly drained his cup. Embria pushed hers back.

“I won’t have you insulting my home. The Antinium deal is idiotic, and you know it. Liscor needs to make the right choice—”

A claw cracked the pewter cup.

“What would you know about the right choice? You haven’t been back in years! The army doesn’t know what Liscor wants or needs! And you don’t know the Antinium!”

“I know more about the Antinium than anyone in this city! You’re mad if you think they can be trusted, and that includes your so-called partner!”

Embria raised her voice. No—it had been risen. Relc stood up amid the localized silence. He pushed his chair back, tossed the shards of the mug onto the table, and glanced to one side.

“Sorry about that, Erin. I’m going to the outhouse.”

He turned and walked out of the inn. Embria looked to one side and saw that everyone was staring at her and her father. Including the young woman sitting at another table, feeding a Gnoll bite-sized morsels of pizza. Embria colored. But Erin Solstice came over. She stared at the shards of the mug on the table.

“Huh. He drank everything before cracking the mug. Cool, cool. I can respect that. Uh…hi. Embria, right?”

“That’s right. You’re Erin Solstice. We’ve met.”

Embria recalled their first meeting. So did Erin. The [Innkeeper]’s mouth twisted slightly, but then she looked over at Relc’s place.

“Um…so. Relc’s your dad.”

Embria sighed. She was already predicting the flow of this conversation.

“That’s right. He is. I know he’s…young. Compared to how old I am, at least. He was young when he joined the army. And my mother—I’m sorry about the shouting.”

Erin waved a hand.

“Don’t worry. ‘S cool. There’s been a lot of shouting all day. And screaming. And fire. People are really upset about the election thing, right?”

“That’s only part of the issue.”

The Wing Commander was glad it was hard to tell when she was flushing. She picked at her last slice of pizza. Erin studied it.

“Yeah. I gathered. Well, I don’t know the whole thing about the army and so on, but I know Relc. So—my condolences. Want another pizza? Or a burger? On the house. We also have alcohol. Dark lager.”

She waggled her eyebrows. Embria looked up sharply.

“What do you mean, my condolences.”

Erin raised her palms innocently.

“Oh, nothing. Nothing…but he is Relc. He can sort of be a jerk without trying sometimes. And he’s a goof—he makes mistakes, he’s rude, unhygienic…I can see how it’s hard. Y’know?”

She gave Embria what might have been meant to be a commiserating look. It failed. Embria controlled her temper, which had sparked up in her gut. She fixed Erin with a stare.

“No matter what you might have heard, Miss Solstice, my father is a Senior Guardsman. I hope you give him the dignity of his rank? I’ll remind you that Sergeant Relc has served Liscor’s army and the city for over twenty years. He’s entitled to his faults, and I didn’t hear him pointing out yours just now.”

“Well, of course. I didn’t mean he was bad. He’s changed a lot! Improved! I just meant—”

Erin began to stammer as Embria got up. The [Commander] stepped back from the table and fished for money. She slapped down some coins and walked towards the door—at the precise moment Relc, looking annoyed but also relieved, walked back in. He stopped, staring at her.

“Where are you going?”

“Out. I’ve just insulted your [Innkeeper] friend. I don’t think I’m welcome here.”

Embria mumbled, wishing she could reduce the heat in her cheeks. Relc stared at her face, and then over Embria’s shoulder.

“What? You didn’t get along with Erin? Everyone likes Erin. What got under your tail? Besides me, I mean.”

“Nothing.”

Embria snapped back. Then she caught herself. She shook her head despairingly at the blank, exasperated look on Relc’s face.

“Nothing. I’m just done. Sorry I brought up your past, Father. Have fun with the play.”

“Hey, I thought you wanted—”

Embria walked past Relc before she could say something she’d regret. She did anyways.

“We don’t need to keep this up, Father. You’ve got your life. I’ve got mine. I’m going back to work. I’ll see you next week.”

With that, she walked out the door. Relc watched her go, as did Erin and half the inn’s guests, who were used to tableaus by now. The [Actors] on stage were taking notes. Erin wandered past the Horns of Hammerad, to Relc. She looked at him. He looked at her.

“Was that my fault?”

Relc sighed.

“No. I think it was mine. Don’t worry, Erin. It happens every week.”

“Every week?”

“Yeah. She always gets around to asking me to rejoin the army. And I always say no. We were having fun up until it this time, though. Well, even if we don’t do that, we argue about the High Command or something.”

The Drake felt at his shoulders, shaking his head. Erin looked at him. And then at the door. Embria had taken the door to the outside, which meant she’d be walking back in the mud and drying soil.

“It didn’t look like that to me.”

“Me either.”

Both Relc and Erin turned to look at the person standing behind them. Relc blinked.

“You’re…”

He hesitated. Then he snapped his fingers a few times.

“Uh, we’ve met. But I forget. Who are you again?”



——



Wing Commander Embria was unhappy. And unlike her father, she had no hobbies to engage her. Or rather, none she could really pursue at this moment. She had no friends outside of her subordinates, and she was their [Commander]. So she was alone. And because she was alone, she did what she knew.

The training grounds attached to the Adventurer’s Guild were in use at this time of day, mainly by adventurers who weren’t currently at work. The City Watch must have had their own area, because Embria saw none of them there. She did recognize some teams—the Gold-rank teams, the Wings of Pallass, and the Flamewardens looked to be coordinating team attacks together.

They were known even outside of their home Walled Cities of Pallass, and, of course, Embria knew them as part of her job. Another time, she might have introduced herself, but at the moment, she was just angry. So she grabbed a training spear, eyed it, and then stalked back to her barracks and came back with her regular spear.

That alone earned her a small berth of space, although the grounds really weren’t that busy. Embria went through a basic attack drill, thrusting and pivoting, parrying invisible shapes, working out her muscles and trying to forget anything else. She was so caught up in the drill that she didn’t notice the figure standing in bright armor on the other end of her area until she was halfway down towards her. Embria instantly stopped; her enchanted spear was very dangerous to anyone carelessly walking in front of it. Not that anyone but an idiot did that in a practice area.

But the person wasn’t a foolish passerby, or even a member of the audience too close for their comfort. It was in fact, a woman, perhaps Embria’s age, with long, golden hair, fair skin that invited the word faire, and the complexion that would fit right at home on a damsel in distress in a similar, very specific era of Human society that had somehow still endured in Terandria and parts of Izril until this day.

The only difference was that this damsel was both [Knight] and maiden. Her armor was polished, if slightly mismatched, and clearly enchanted. She held a wooden longsword in two hands and nodded politely at Embria.

“Apologies. I was wondering if you’d like to spar?”

It was a common request, and the courteous answer was yes. But Embria was in no mood. She planted the tip of her spear in the ground.

“Sorry. I’m not in the mood for a spar. One of us would get hurt.”

The [Knight] or adventurer shrugged.

“I’m willing to take a risk. I have armor on. And you’re quick with that spear. What do you say? Practice spear, though? I don’t want to take a hit from whatever that is.”

She indicated Embria’s enchanted spear. The Drake bared her teeth. But why not? She took her spear to one side and grabbed the training spear. Then she walked back.

“Don’t blame me if you get hurt. Call out any time if you want to stop.”

The [Warrior] nodded calmly and set herself. Embria didn’t bother with a count or formality; she set to with a series of rapid thrusts aimed straight at the woman’s chest. She didn’t intend to strike the unguarded face—that was begging to put out an eye or do serious damage—but a few sturdy hits against the breastplate would make Embria feel better.

Only, it turned out the woman was better than Embria had thought. She blocked and moved back with the longsword, calmly deflecting aggressive thrusts meant to hit her. More than a fair number got through; Embria was a Wing Commander, and she had the advantage of reach and speed with her spear.

But the woman was quick and more adept with her longsword than most [Warriors]. Even better than the [Lieutenants] under Embria’s command. And yes, she took hits, but if she had a helmet on and Embria were trying to get through her armor? It would have been closer.

After a few minutes, Embria let the woman go on the offensive. She found that the [Warrior] was just as aggressive as Embria herself. The Drake blocked a heavy two-handed strike and grunted; she pivoted and avoided a lancing thrust at her chest. To the Human woman’s clear frustration, she didn’t get more than a single, glancing blow in on her entire offensive. She lowered her sword, panting, and Embria smiled.

“You’re not half bad, Miss Warrior.”

“The same to you. Although it’s more like false modesty in your case. I thought I’d touch you properly at least once. That was humbling.”

The woman planted her sword in the ground, looking disgusted with herself. Against her mood, Embria laughed. And she was feeling better.

“If you could hit me so easily, I’d be worried. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer, Miss?”

“Silver. But I’ve improved since my last ranking test. Not enough, apparently.”

Embria shrugged.

“A Wing Commander should be the equivalent of any Gold-rank adventurer. At least.”

“True. True enough. But you’re quicker with a spear than I thought. I’d hate to try that with my actual sword, enchantments or not. Yvlon Byres, at your service.”

The woman held out a hand. Embria blinked; normally you’d take off a gauntlet, but she shook the hand anyways. Yvlon rubbed at one forearm as she stepped back, and Embria wondered if she’d taken an injury. She didn’t comment on it.

“Please. Wing Commander Embria Grasstongue. Are you here to challenge Liscor’s dungeon, Miss Byres?”

“Call me Yvlon. And I’ve had enough of that dungeon for two lifetimes.”

Yvlon’s smile was bitter. But she brushed that away in a second. She and Embria stood to one side, watching as Bevussa flew up in a mock sparring match with Keldrass.

“I have to admit, I sought you out myself, Commander Embria.”

“Just Embria. Have we met?”

Yvlon blinked.

“No. But you were just at The Wandering Inn. And I, uh, saw part of what happened there.”

“Oh.”

The Drake’s mood soured at once again. Yvlon spoke quickly, eying her face.

“I don’t know about the, uh, Drake. Relc. Your father? I meant about Erin. I heard what she said. And I wanted to clear the air. Erin can be tactless, but she counts Relc as a friend.”

“That’s something. But she didn’t get anything wrong. And you can probably guess our relationship at a glance.”

“I can.”

Yvlon’s quiet voice made Embria look up. The [Warrior] gripped arm absently, then she met Embria’s eyes.

“He’s quite good. I saw him fighting during the siege. And against the Face-Eater Moths. The Raskghar too, come to think of it.”

“You were here for all of that?”

Embria was surprised. She’d heard of Liscor’s woes. To hear tell, the city had barely made it out of each encounter. Yvlon nodded.

“I took part. Not as the vanguard of any of the action. But your father was a good part of all of it. I think he took out one of the giant Face-Eater Moths? He certainly killed a number of Raskghar. Even one of their Awakened. And…Garen Redfang.”

Her expression grew still at that. But it only made Embria more curious.

“I haven’t been able to get anyone to give me a full account of what happened. Can you tell me more? Uh—would you like to sit?”

“I could stand or sit. It’s not like we’re that tired. By all means, let me fill you in. I can’t say I saw all of what Relc did, but as for the action—”

Yvlon began to tell Embria about all three encounters. Then, with a grimace, she went back and related the encounter with Skinner as well.

“I didn’t see any of that. I was out of it after I escaped the dungeon. Not—well, not Liscor’s side of things. But I heard that he helped chase off Skinner himself.”

“No one mentioned that. It doesn’t surprise me, though. He’s one of Liscor’s best—no, probably their best fighter, if not the highest-level [Guardsman].”

By this time Embria was sitting. The Wing Commander smiled to herself as she balanced her enchanted spear on her legs. Yvlon eyed the tip with interest; it had been given a very fine metal inlay that made it look like blue traces of metal were forged into the spearhead.

“I have to admit, I was surprised at how good Relc was. I’ve known [Guardsman] and none, not even their Watch Captains, have come close. Not even in places like Invrisil. I know the Drakes value their law enforcement, but Relc’s as strong as a Gold-rank adventurer. Without more than his enchanted spear. And he was a war hero?”

The question in her voice was without judgment. Embria hesitated.

“You could say that. He was really just a soldier. One of Liscor’s finest. He was a [Sergeant]—I don’t suppose you know how Liscor’s army works? We have a lot of officer classes.”

Yvlon’s lips quirked.

“I have a friend who educates me on everything and anything. I do know a bit. [Sergeant]’s low, isn’t it?”

“It is. But my father wasn’t just an ordinary grunt. He had a nickname. The Gecko of Liscor. And he was an anti-officer fighter. He could charge into enemy lines, take out a commander, and retreat.”

“And he was only a [Sergeant]? Was it a ploy?”

Embria ducked her head.

“Yes and no. You see, he really wasn’t the kind of person who could lead an entire unit, let alone a wing or an army. He had the fighting skill. Leadership? Strategy? No. He was perfect for a [Sergeant], so the High Command decided he could be the best. And his class also interfered with him advancing. You see, he’s a [Spearmaster].”

Yvlon whistled softly. Embria nodded a few times.

“You get it?”

“They’re like [Fencers]. The ones with silver and gold bells, I mean. Not just anyone can get that class. Don’t you have to be trained for years to be a [Spearmaster]?”

“Or kill one in combat. The trouble is, there’s no class consolidation that combines [Sergeant] and [Spearmaster]. There is a [Spearmaster General], although that’s generic, and he might have gotten [Spear Captain], but…it just didn’t work out. So my dad’s a Level 30 plus [Spearmaster] and nearly as high level in [Sergeant].”

“And a [Guardsman]. No wonder he can fight with the best of them.”

“Right? He was a nightmare to face for low-level officers. The High Command even made an allowance to give him a [Commander]-grade artifact.”

It was no use, Embria couldn’t suppress the delighted smile on her face. Yvlon was smiling too as she balanced the practice sword on her knees.

“Like the one you use? I’ve got a good sword myself. The armor’s second-rate, but decent. But my sword? It’s a Sword of [Weight]. I’m trying not to let it do the fighting.”

Embria blinked. Her [Soldier]’s mind took over for a second.

“How heavy?”

“I haven’t measured. But maybe as much as thirty pounds? Higher?”

“That’s…powerful.”

“It is. But your spear looks just as deadly. May I ask what its enchantment is?”

Yvlon indicated the spear balanced across Embria’s legs. The Wing Commander looked down. She hesitated, but anyone who knew something of spears would be able to identify it.

“It’s an Evercut spear. Heard of it?”

The warrior nodded.

“I’ve heard of Evercut arrows. Same principle? One cut and you don’t stop bleeding?”

“Not with magic. And it halts regeneration. It also makes the bleeding worse since it takes far longer to clot. It’s a good spear. Not the best, but I’ve used it for years. His is better. My father’s, I mean. He’s got one enchanted with anti-magic. It’s nearly as strong as a blade made of Naq-Alrama steel. It’s a [Mage]-killer, or an officer-slayer.”

“That is good.”

Yvlon nodded appreciatively, as only one who knew something of combat could. She glanced at Embria as the Drake blushed, realizing she’d gone on about Relc for the last five minutes.

“Sorry. I just don’t get a chance to learn about my father that often. He doesn’t talk about his life. Much less his past with me.”

The Human woman shook her head. She sighed and sat back on the practice bench.

“No, it’s refreshing. And I’m glad I could tell you what’s happened. I have to say…I suppose I was wrong. You admire him. I guess that’s not like my father and I at all.”

Embria coughed.

“W-what? Well, he is my father.”

The armored woman nodded.

“I know. And I have a similar relationship to my father. I admire him too. But he’s not my hero.”

She looked at Embria. The Wing Commander froze. And what might have come out of her mouth next was anyone’s guess. Because she saw something similar in Yvlon’s gaze, a knowingness. And then she saw something else reflected in her vision. And she heard a voice, polite, friendly, clicking, from behind her.

“Hello, Yvlon. I am not interrupting you, am I?”

Embria spun. She saw two open mandibles, a black body. Multi-faceted eyes. Antennae. Three arms.

Antinium.

Reflexively, Embria rose, spear raised. Yvlon jumped to her feet, putting an arm out. The Antinium stepped back, studying Embria. He raised one hand in greeting.

“I am Ksmvr.”

“Back off.”

Embria snarled. Yvlon quickly interposed herself between Embria and the Antinium.

“Ksmvr, take a step back. Wing Commander, please calm down. Ksmvr is with me. He’s part of my team.”

“You?”

Embria stared at Yvlon. She felt like she’d been punched in the gut. She’d heard someone was crazy enough to have teamed up with an Antinium. But Yvlon? The [Warrior] nodded.

“Ksmvr’s from Liscor’s Hive. He was exiled. I know what Liscor’s army’s relationship is with the Antinium but—they’re not all monsters. Neither are all Goblins. It took me a while to realize that myself.”

“That is correct. I am not listed as a monster in the Adventurer’s Guild.”

“Not helping, Ksmvr.”

Embria was shaking her head. She took a step backwards, glaring at both Yvlon and Ksmvr, her body taut.

“I don’t care. I know my enemies, and Goblins and Antinium don’t get a pass for being different. They’re both species that have nearly wiped out Liscor and my people—you have no idea what that thing is capable of.”

“No?”

A touch of fire entered Yvlon’s eyes. She held an arm, blocking Embria. The Drake lowered her spear’s tip, but she still glared at Ksmvr.

“No.”

“No.”

Both females looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium adventurer nodded.

“Wing Commander Embria is quite correct. You do not know the full capacity of my abilities, Yvlon. I have been trying to educate you. But Wing Commander Embria’s hostility is quite understandable.”

“No, it’s not.”

Yvlon folded her arms, glaring between Ksmvr and Embria now. She turned to him.

“Your people may have invaded Izril, Ksmvr, but you killed no one. And the Antinium helped save Liscor. Surely that earns them a small pass? Humans and Gnolls have both been at war with the Drakes, and I didn’t see Commander Embria instantly threaten me when I approached. No Antinium has killed a Drake in a decade. Can’t we be civil?”

She looked pointedly at the Drake in question. Embria took a deep breath.

“No, we can not. You’re the one who doesn’t understand, Miss Byres. The Antinium are not another species on Izril who can be reasoned with. They are cold, insectile strangers. And I’ve killed Antinium before.”

The [Warrior] paused.

“How do you mean? From Liscor’s Hive?”

Embria laughed.

“We haven’t been here long enough. But Liscor’s army fights everywhere. You think we aren’t called to patrol the neutral border between the Hives? It’s not peaceful like you Humans think. The Antinium attack us, and we attack them. Clashes happen all the time on the border zone. And not with these Worker-types either. Liscor’s Antinium are tame compared to the ones I’ve seen. Flying bastards who pick off travellers on the roads. Armored Antinium. Invisible ones. And there are worse kinds, like the things that sometimes appear and kill entire villages. They don’t look like regular Antinium—until you cut them open and see the similarities. We are at war.”

The woman opened her mouth. But it was Ksmvr who jumped in.

“That is correct, broadly speaking, Wing Commander Embria. But I am no longer a member of my Hive. Therefore, I am no enemy of yours, Wing Commander Embria. I am an adventurer. That is all I have left.”

Embria filed away that information in case it was important. But she still held onto her spear. She lowered it to the ground and stepped back, but she couldn’t let go.

“That changes nothing. I’m sorry to bother you, Miss Byres. But I think it’s time I get back to my drills.”

She saluted with her spear. Yvlon looked annoyed and disgusted by turns. She moved Ksmvr back and spoke sharply.

“I’d have hoped that you could meet one member of a species without tarring the rest with the same brush. Or are all Drakes the same? All Gnolls? Either way, if you won’t accept the Antinium, at least you could rethink Goblins. One stays at Erin’s inn. And Goblins may have attacked Liscor at the behest of their Goblin Lord, but Goblins—”

“Saved it?”

It was a common refrain. Embria spat the words. She looked Yvlon in the eye and shook her head.

“You want me to be at peace with the Antinium? Fine. I’ll do that when we’re actually at peace. When I can trust that the Hive isn’t working to undermine Liscor.”

“That would be very difficult.”

“Shush, Ksmvr.”

Embria ignored both. She tightened her grip on her spear.

“But Goblins? Make peace with Goblins? Never. Goblins killed my mother.”



——



And then she was the angriest she’d been all day. For a moment. For ten minutes. For twenty. Twenty-seven. And then she couldn’t be angry anymore. Because as deep the injustice, as true as the emotions were, they were old wounds. Embria couldn’t be angry. So she was just tired. And a bit sad as she practiced alone.

That was how he found her. She didn’t expect it, but when she turned her head, there he was. Just standing there, watching her. He nearly made her lose her grip on her spear. In the end, Embria swung it onto one shoulder and glared at him. She wasn’t in the mood for half-hearted apologies.

“Did you send that Human? Yvlon Byres?”

Relc looked around. Yvlon was standing on the far end of the practice grounds, showing Ksmvr how to fight with sword and shield more effectively.

“Her? Nope. I got sort of mad at Erin when I found out she’d gone. But apparently it was all Yvlon.”

“Well. She’s best friends with an Antinium. Just like you’re now best friends with Erin and all her Goblins, right? Are you enjoying their company too, along with Senior Guardsman Klbkch?”

The words felt like acid coming out, as if Embria were Oldblood. Relc just stared at her, until she couldn’t meet his gaze. Shame rushed through her; the look in his eyes was—

“No. I don’t speak to that guy. And he doesn’t speak to me. But I don’t need to join the army and slaughter another thousand to avenge your mother.”

“So you’re fine with Goblins now? Is that it?”

Embria whirled on him. Relc shrugged. It was pained, contemptuous, and tired all at once.

“I didn’t say that. But tell me. How many more should I have killed? How long should I have stuck around to kill them? One killed her. And it could have been Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, a damn Corusdeer—”

“They killed your parents. You told me.”

“I did. And they did. I never said I was okay with it. But Antinium got my buddies. Klb is my buddy. Let’s just say it’s like that.”

It was too much like what Yvlon had said. Embria turned her back.

“You don’t have to follow me about. We had our half a day. That’s better than normal.”

Relc sighed loudly.

“Why is it always like this? I thought you liked the pet store. And the pizza. Maybe even the puzzles.”

“I did. But that’s your life, Father. Not mine.”

Relc paused.

“Yeah. So maybe I should visit where you work. What’s stopping you from saying where we’ll go one time?”

“If you went back to the barracks, half of my command would be lining up to have a ‘friendly’ sparring match with you. The other half would spit in your face.”

“Sounds about right. So it’s my crummy life, huh?”

“It wouldn’t bother me if you did anything useful with your time. But what am I supposed to do? Just watch you go about your business? Can’t you—do something I’d do?”

There was a pause. And then a sigh. Embria listened to it as she stared at Yvlon and Ksmvr, who were studiously ignoring them. Well, Yvlon was.

“I tried. But I guess my life just isn’t that interesting. Puzzles. Dogs. Blue fruit juice. I’m sorry. What would you like me to do? Go for a drink? Watch a performance or something?”

“I don’t know. No.”

“Then I’m out of ideas. What do we have in common?”

Embria spun. She walked over to Relc and poked at his chest.

“You’re my father. I’m your daughter. Isn’t that enough?”

He looked down at her sadly.

“I guess not, kid. Or I guess we’re too alike. Only, we’re on the wrong side of things. You’re in the army. I’m not. How do we deal with that?”

And she had no answer. If she had, she wouldn’t be here. They wouldn’t do this. And she wouldn’t have been a Wing Commander while he stayed in Liscor. And both of them knew it. So Embria turned around. She grabbed her spear and ran through one of her exercises. The spear cut the air. Embria did a basic spear dance, alone in her world. Waiting for him to leave.

He didn’t leave, though. Whenever she turned her head, there he was. And that was different too. She’d expected him to stalk off in a huff or just sneak away. Run away. But this time he stayed. He was watching her. Watching the arcs her spear traced in the air. Embria turned her head and kept practicing. And after three more forms, she heard his voice.

“You do that pretty well. I have a similar warm-up, you know.”

“Uh huh.”

She concentrated on her footwork. It was familiar. Comforting. But she was aware of his presence. It was aggravating and familiar. And…Embria tried to shut out the rest with the purity of her art. She transitioned from basic thrusts and steps to advanced moves. Sweeping cuts, sudden feints and reverse-strikes. The sounds in the practice courts slowly died down as Embria cut and stepped, faster and faster, each strike striving for precision, the height of martial prowess that Skills alone could not achieve.

And then she turned—and he was gone. Gone from the place he’d been standing. Just like that. It hit Embria in the gut, and she staggered for a second. But what had she expected? For him to wait forever. Angrily, Embria turned. She raised her spear to slash—

And there he was. Relc raised his spear above his head. And he was right there. His head turned to look at her. Embria faltered. Her spear nearly slipped. Then she realized. His arms. His posture.

It was a copy of hers. And as Relc brought his spear down, he completed the slash she’d been about to perform. Slowly, Embria cut downwards, in the same arc. She looked at her father. And he waited.

What came next? Embria’s body took over for her mind. She retreated, cutting across the first cut. And beside her, Relc copied the move.

No—he didn’t copy it. Because that would have put him a beat behind her. He had moved at the exact same time she did. He knew what was coming next. And, of course, he did. This was a spear technique. A move he had learned. Perhaps even one he had shown her growing up.

Of course, they were the same. Slowly, Embria brought her spear up. It was her routine. Her warm up. But two spears rose. They fell as one. And daughter and father looked at each other. And then Embria took a deep breath. She spun her spear, and Relc blinked and then mimicked her. And they began again.



——



Yvlon saw the two figures moving in synch out of the corner of her eye. And at first, she didn’t pay attention, coaching Ksmvr in traditional Byres swordplay. But then the movements were impossible to ignore. Because they were an anomaly. Just like something completely dissonant stood out, the unity of the two figures was also different. Yvlon turned and halted her practice session.

Her eyes widened. She saw Embria, sweat covering her crimson scales, turning. Her spear was lowered, tracing a circle in the dirt around her. And beside her, his spear held in the exact same way, at the same angle, was Relc. He flicked his spear up, and hers flew with it, a slight thrust that kicked up dirt. They jumped back, and the veil of dust billowed up. Two outlines moved together. Two shadows.

Step. Pivot. The spears cut a line through the cloud of dust. Yvlon watched the tips of the spears tracing silver lines in the air. They caught the light.

“Silver and steel.”

Yvlon breathed the words. The move was beautiful, but the technique of both Drakes was flawless. And she wasn’t the only one who’d seen. Across the sparring grounds and practice area, other people were lowering their weapons. Captain Bevussa and Keldrass halted in their practice to watch.

“Are you seeing this, Issa?”

“Yes, Captain.”

One of the Oldblood Drakes alighted on the ground. Her eyes caught a crescent cut. This time, Embria and Relc advanced, and the half-moons cut patterns through the air. Bevussa glanced at her teammate.

“You use a spear. How good are they? Could you do that?”

“Good, Captain? I can’t tell. But I can’t do that. Not with a Skill. Look.”

It wasn’t just the way they cut, or the fact that they moved in tandem. Because a spear was not a single weapon like a sword you could only hold a limited number of ways. It could be long or short, and where you held it, where you stood, affected how you fought your opponent.

Stab. Cut upwards. Shift grip. The spears jabbed and then spun, from a lance to quarterstaff. The other practitioners in the courtyard looked over. The two Drakes struck, up, down, left, right, a never-ending flurry of blows. Then they changed their grips and swung.

“Watch out—”

The long end of the spear swung across the courts. And Relc and Embria were too close. They were going to strike each other across the torsos! Bevussa started forwards with two Drakes from her team. They were too slow.

And it didn’t matter. Embria’s torso twisted. Sideways, and down. She leaned under Relc’s swing, and as she completed the sweeping slash, he twisted back, letting her enchanted spear’s tip pass over his face. Neither Drake blinked. They kept moving, wielding their spears like longswords now, with even greater reach.

Yvlon watched silently. So did Ksmvr. Both used swords. But Yvlon was the daughter of a martial house. Ksmvr had been born a Prognugator. They understood the art of wielding a spear. To Yvlon, it was a lesson in watching basic forms executed flawlessly. And then both Drakes left her understanding of spear combat behind.

A flash of light. The spears touched the ground. And then dust billowed up. But the two Drakes didn’t appear from behind the dust cloud. They pivoted, and then used the blunt ends of their spears. And as casually as if they were walking, they swung themselves off the ground, landing, cutting. A backhanded strike cut the air behind Embria as Relc duplicated the feat, before the cloud had begun to drift downwards.

“What was that move?”

Bevussa wondered aloud. No one on the courts answered her at first. And then an old, crackling voice spoke up.

“Blinding moves. Repositioning. Fighting an opponent to your rear.”

Yvlon looked around. An old, female Drake stood behind her, in the back door to the Adventurer’s Guild. Tekshia Shivertail, Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild, watched as Relc and Embria turned. Their spears lashed out, cutting the air.

“They’re good, Guildmistress?”

Bevussa asked on behalf of the silent audience. Neither Embria nor Relc noticed. Tekshia shook her head. She watched Embria as the younger Drake’s scales flashed.

“If you have to ask, you know the answer. Watch.”

The spear dances had changed. Now more complex forms were appearing. Relc and Embria stepped back, walking backwards from an invisible foe. The spears flickered, front, back, jabbing with the tip and butt of the spear.

“Fighting off a two-pronged attack. Spinning technique to keep them off-guard.”

The two spears flickered as the Drakes spun then, and Yvlon lost track of where the spear tip was for a second as the two attacked two directions at once, repeating the confusing maneuver, halting the rotation of the spear to attack with the spearhead or lash out backwards.

Then the two Drakes paused. They looked at each other, and Relc gestured up. Embria nodded. Yvlon was confused. Then Embria and Relc took a run up. They leapt, using their poles to vault high, high into the air.

They should have fallen, no matter how long it took. But they stayed in the air. The butt of Embria’s spear struck the hard earth, and the force launched her again as her body twisted sideways. She struck again, and the earth cracked. And then again, launching herself in midair before she could touch the ground. The impacts kept her moving through the air until she landed. Next to Relc, across the sparring courts. Thirty feet away.

Silently, the audience stared at Tekshia. The old [Guildmistress] folded her arms.

“That’s just showing off.”

As the two landed, they finished the routine. The final combination was just a series of thrusts.

Strike. Step. Strike. The spears shot forwards, finding an invisible target with each strike. As if there was no doubt they would ever miss. It was confident. And just when Yvlon thought the two would lower their spears, they turned. As smoothly as they had been in clockwork before, suddenly Embria was facing her father. And her enchanted spear lanced out like a serpent at his chest.

Clack.

He knocked it down. Undeterred, Embria swept her spear up. But the sound of wood meeting wood was the only sound in the world. She spun her spear, and Relc blocked the butt of the spear swinging to his thigh. The female Drake slashed again, and it was blocked. But she continued. Faster, and faster.

Clack. Clack. Clack. Clackclackclackclackclack—

The sound became an endless stream of sound in Yvlon’s ears. Each slash was blocked or diverted, each blow parried. And then, suddenly, it was Embria on the defensive. First Relc attacked, his spear whirling from form to form—short stabs, long slashes, whirling the spear like a stave—and then Embria was advancing.

Back and forth. Advancing and retreating. They pressed each other hard, but not once did the spear’s tip touch the other, wood or enchanted metal. It put Yvlon’s bout with Embria to shame. If this was what the Drake was capable of, Yvlon wouldn’t have ever touched her.

The duel, the practice, lasted sometime between a heartbeat and an hour. Then Embria lowered her spear and wiped at her brow. And Relc propped his spear up on his shoulder and stretched. Yvlon exhaled, and Tekshia applauded.

Once. It was so quiet that Yvlon barely heard it. She saw Keldrass uncertainly raise his claws with some of the other watchers, but Tekshia had stopped before anyone else could join in. The Guildmistress shook her head once more. But her tone was far from dismissive.

“And they say we don’t have true skill at arms. Someone show those [Martial Artist] freaks at Pomle this sight.”

She hobbled forwards, using a cane that rather resembled a spear itself for a crutch. No—it was a short spear. Tekshia leaned on it. Yvlon followed her.

“That’s what a Wing Commander in your army can do?”

The old Drake snorted.

“That’s what Commander Grasstongue can do. Why do you think she made Wing Commander in just two decades?”

She shook her head. With her spear-cane, Tekshia indicated Relc. He was smiling. So was Embria.

“That was a [Spearmaster]’s routine. No [Spear Hunter] could do that just by practicing or leveling up.”

The look she gave the other adventurers in the sparring fields said they couldn’t do it either. Yvlon tried to remember if she’d ever seen Ylawes or anyone else perform a sword-dance nearly that advanced. Pisces…no, he had polished moves, but not nearly to this level.

Now Relc and Embria were talking. He wiped off sweat from his brow as he indicated at the spot where they’d literally flown across the ground for thirty feet.

“Where’d you learn my patented [Soaring Spearsman] trick?”

Embria grinned. Her tone sounded waspish, but her expression looked pleased to Yvlon.

“Don’t make up Skills. I watched you do that trick for years. It took me a decade to learn to copy it. And unlike you, I’ve actually used it in battles.”

“Hey! Wait, really?”

“Yes. I didn’t think you still practiced, though.”

“Well, you know. I keep up. The Captain would kill me if I didn’t practice. So I do. Say…I’m beat. Want to wash off and…get a drink?”

Embria paused. She looked at Relc and hesitated. At last, she shrugged.

“I could try that. We could.”

“Sure. Want to go to the bath house?”

“Nah. I’ll just grab a bucket of water and…get a change of clothes. You’re covered in sweat. What if we meet at your apartment in ten minutes?”

“Sure. I mean, great.”

Relc stood to one side. He watched, almost bemused, as his daughter left the courtyard, spear on one shoulder. He turned his head and stared at his spear—even the way he carried it was the same. He looked around and then noticed the audience at last.

“What’re you looking at?”

Tekshia poked Relc in the back with her spear.

“You, fool. Where did that girl learn how to do that spear dance?”

“I don’t know. From the army?”

Relc ducked as Tekshia swung at his head. And she was quick too. She glared at him.

“Don’t be cute. You’re too ugly. She copied you. I’ve seen you practice that before. And you can’t learn that from sight alone, no matter what genius you are. You taught her.”

The big [Guardsman] hunched his shoulders.

“So maybe I did. I didn’t think she’d keep using that in the army. I taught her how to use a spear and nothing else. So what? That’s a terrible gift for a kid to get.”

Tekshia just shook her head. She looked around and then clicked her fingers.

“You. Keldrass. Grab a bucket of water. Fill it up from the wall.”

The Gold-rank Captain blinked. But another click of Tekshia’s claws sent him trotting off. She looked at Relc. He was leaning on his spear, sweat dripping down.

“Go wash up. And put something decent on. Don’t leave your daughter waiting. If you really feel that way, then your company is the least she deserves.”

Keldrass came back. Tekshia grabbed the bucket and hurled it on Relc. The Drake cursed, and then blinked at her through a waterfall of water dripping off him. He hadn’t dodged it. Tekshia snapped at him.

“Did you hear me? Get lost.”

Relc uncertainly looked around. Slowly, he holstered his spear across his back in its custom harness. Then he trotted down the street. Yvlon stared at the puddles of water he left. Tekshia sighed as she watched him go. Then she stared around.

“What are you waiting for? Do you think you’ll level up by watching? Get back to work!”

The adventurers started and took their spots, even if they’d been intending to get a nice long drink instead. Tekshia walked back into her guild. She paused to stare backwards at Relc’s disappearing from. Then she looked at the place where they’d been. She swished her tail and shook her head a final time.

“Ridiculous. Liscor doesn’t need three [Spearmasters].”

But she was smiling when she said it.



——



A father and a daughter met outside his apartment. As they had. As they did. They walked together through Liscor’s streets. It was both their days off. And as it had been noted, Liscor was full of things more interesting and exciting than them.

On his platform, Lism dueled Krshia with words. By his side was the esteemed, no, heroic Captain Wikir. The Gnoll stood in full breastplate and armor, saluting and looking bored and embarrassed to tears by halves. Embria paused to stare at him with Relc. She hesitated, and then pointed to the stage.

“You should be the one he calls out. Not me. All I did was follow orders. You slew that Goblin. Garen Redfang. I never thanked you for doing that.”

“Don’t.”

“But you’re Liscor’s war hero. If anyone was.”

“I don’t feel like it.”

Relc crossed his arms. He looked bleakly at the stage and shook his head. He looked at his daughter. This was the first thing they’d really said to each other since the sparring match. But it was honest. It didn’t dance about the subject. And it wasn’t the same conversation. She looked at him, hesitating.

“Why not? You stopped Garen Redfang. A Gold-rank traitor. And you commanded the 4th Company. You called the retreat when I didn’t. And they listened. Didn’t you feel anything?”

The former [Sergeant] hesitated. He could have evaded or lied, but he didn’t.

“Of course. I went out there, and for a second, it was like being back in the ranks. But just for a second. I didn’t want to go out there swinging and fighting with the [Soldiers]. And I didn’t go down there for the 4th Company. I went there for you.”

He looked at his daughter. And his daughter looked back. Relc shook his head. He stared at Lism and Captain Wikir. His voice was far-off.

“I didn’t do anything heroic. I killed a dead Goblin. And it still wasn’t me that got him. He just stopped. I’ve seen it before. What’s heroic about that? He killed the Goblin Lord. He went through an army—no, two armies and the 4th Company. And you think I stopped him? Besides…”

His voice trailed off. Embria waited for more, but a roar from the crowd drowned out whatever might be said preemptively. One of the candidates had shouted something inflammatory. Both sides pushed forwards, and Embria reached out.

“Let’s get out of here!”

“Right!”

Relc pushed through the crowd, single-handedly driving through the flow of people. He felt a grip on his hand, and when he won clear of the immediate crowd, he looked back and saw Embria was holding his hand. Relc swung his arm.

“Whew. Glad I’m not on duty. It’s going to be a pain breaking up the fights. Where to, kid? Uh, you can let go.”

Embria hesitated. But then she gripped Relc’s hand. He stared at her. She didn’t let go. Relc stared at her clawed hand. He opened his mouth. She jumped in.

“How about the inn?”

Relc closed his mouth on what he had been about to say. He nodded.

“Okay.”

And so they walked. Hand in hand. Embria’s cheeks were flaming with embarrassment, but you would hardly notice with her fiery scales as it was. And the hands? No one noticed as the two walked together at first. But the two whom it mattered to felt it.

“You’ve gotten a lot taller. When was the last time we did this?”

Relc looked down at Embria, mystified. She blinked up at him.

“It must have been around ten years ago. Eight at the least. Remember how I ran away when I was thirteen?”

His hand tightened on hers.

“Yeah. Yeah. I do remember that. And we never did this back in the army, did we? I just got back from the front or something. You were usually asleep.”

“That’s true.”

On they went. Embria took a deep breath as they walked down the street, past people whose lives didn’t matter to her right now.

“Is that why you left? Really? It wasn’t cowardice.”

“Nah. It was.”

She stopped.

“Dad. You don’t need to—”

“What? Lie? I don’t need to. I know what they say about me. I was one of them, remember?”

He looked at her. And he shrugged, a bit sad and guilty.

“It’s the truth. I just didn’t want to die. I thought I would. No, I knew I would. I had a nickname. And I was going into every battle with the front lines. I was afraid. Someday, someone was going to lay a trap. Or hire an [Assassin] and get me. I already had a dozen close calls. I didn’t want to die. And you were there. That’s true. So I quit. But it was about me, kid. It always was.”

It wasn’t what Embria wanted to hear. But the bitter pill wasn’t the poison she thought it would be.

“You know, I was serious about you coming back. There’s a bunch of your old friends who made it to the High Command. They’d call you in. You could be a [Captain]. It’s a possibility.”

And she hoped. Oh, she hoped, but she knew what he would say. For a glorious second, he hesitated. Then Relc shook his head.

“I wouldn’t be happy there, k—Embria. I couldn’t go back, even if everyone welcomed me with open arms. I was afraid, yeah. But I wasn’t happy, near the end. That’s why I left. I could have died for the army, with my pals, I guess. But I wasn’t happy. I didn’t say that either, did I? I’m sorry.”

He looked at Embria. And his grip was very gentle. She looked up at him. And slowly, she nodded.

“Okay.”

It was the last time she would ever ask. Embria tried to blink tears out of her eyes, but there were none. Even so, Relc brushed a hand across her neck spines.

“Hey. It’s a good offer. If I ever lose my job, I’ll think about it, okay?”

And she laughed. Because that, more than any of his denials, was the truest refusal she’d ever heard. And on they walked. And in time, unbidden, Relc spoke. He looked at the inn on the hill as they walked out the gates, walking through mud and growing grass and plants.

“So I never got why Erin was upset. I thought Goblins were trash. Monsters. And I kept thinking that until I found myself hitting this little Goblin. Rags. Erin kicked me out of the inn. And then I realized ‘oh wow, she’s not kidding. She really likes Goblins.’ But I still didn’t get it until later. Really later, I mean.”

Embria waited. The inn was growing larger. The sun falling. And it was lit up. Relc swallowed, and then went on.

“The first time I came to the inn after the siege, Erin welcomed me in. She didn’t say a thing. And that Hob, Numbtongue, he didn’t attack me. Just gave me a look. I felt like I saw it in a mirror. I killed his dad, I guess. Goblins don’t have dads. But I heard that Redfang guy was his tribe’s Chieftain. Taught them all how to fight. But Numbtongue never went after me.”

“Why?”

Relc let go. He ran a claw down his neck and shook his head. Embria stopped to watch him. And the emotions flickering across his face were also realer than she had seen before.

“I asked him. Erin asked him, really. And he said it was because I didn’t kill him. Garen Redfang. His brother did. The Goblin Lord. Or Garen did. He chose where to die. I just held the spear. But you know what was familiar? Numbtongue, that guy. He didn’t forgive me. And I don’t think he will. And that’s fair. More than fair.”

That was all he said. Embria absorbed it quietly. She stood in the wet soil, inhaling the wet, musty scent in the air that was almost overpowering. And she had to ask. It wasn’t the same thing.

“So you’re okay with being here? With just being a Senior Guardsman and being a joke to some people?”

Relc hesitated. Then he smiled.

“They say that. But they made me Senior Guardsman. And Erin let me back into her inn. Klb’s my buddy. They say tons of stuff, but they’re my guys.”

Embria nodded. She swallowed a lump in her throat. Relc kept walking. He went on, staring at the sky.

“Everyone forgot about the Gecko of Liscor. Until recently, that was. No one remembers Sergeant Relc, and that’s fine by me.”

A hand reached for his. Relc started, and then looked back. A little Drake looked up at him. And then an older one replaced her. Embria looked up at her father.

“I never forgot.”

For a while, he looked at her. Startled. And then he smiled. They walked on, into the night and towards the inn sitting on the hill. And after a while, Relc spoke up. His thoughtful tone was gone, and a brasher, relaxed note entered his tone. Bragging. And it was nostalgic.

“You know, I did use that trick where you keep jumping with the spear in battle. Didn’t I tell you about it?”

Embria rolled her eyes.

“Go on, Dad.”

Relc grinned.

“Well, when I was in the army, I was fighting an entire nest of Crelers. Babies. And the little bastards were swarming the ground, popping out of it. The [Mages] were going to hit the entire spot, so I…”

And he jumped ahead of her, demonstrating. Like a kid. But as Embria rolled her eyes, she realized this was the first time he’d talked about being in the army to her. And then she told him what her life had been like. And he listened.



——



“And that’s how I killed my first Wyvern.”

Embria finished her tale and sipped from her cup. No blue fruit juice for her. Just a dark lager, which was, in fact, light. Erin had gotten the barrels mixed up again. But it didn’t matter. Relc sat across from her, listening. And when Embria was done, he grinned and leaned over to nudge the girl sitting next to her.

“Hey Erin, hear that? My kid got her first Wyvern when she was eighteen. Not bad, huh? You know, I was twenty-six when I killed mine. Not that we had to fight them that often. Obviously. But that’s something. Those bastards have sharp teeth and they dive fast.”

“Way too fast. You hear the shriek, and it’s too late. Nightmarish.”

Embria agreed. Relc made a face.

“Damn High Command. Deploying us in Wyvern territory every two damn seconds.”

Embria nodded. This at least she could get behind. Relc grinned, caught by a sudden thought.

“But you know, we did figure out a way to deal with them. Poisoned dead cows. Or pigs. Didn’t old Scartail tell you to do that? He figured it out when I was in command.”

“I wish. We had a green Field Commander when I was deployed. Didn’t even get the horses under cover on the march.”

“Ancestor’s sack, what an idiot. But you got a Wyvern yourself. That’s something. Right, Erin? Embria’s almost as good as I am. And she’s a [Commander]. Right?”

Nudge, nudge. Erin nudged back out of irritation and lowered her mug.

“I get it Relc. She’s cool. Stop nudging me!”

“Sorry. Are we boring you?”

“Maybe? You’ve been talking about this campaign or that mud pit you had to fight in for the last two hours. I’m not saying I’d rather listen to Pisces talk, but I might.”

Relc and Embria laughed. The Wing Commander spread her claws helplessly.

“Sorry, Miss Erin. I guess that’s what [Soldiers] do. Swap war stories. Even retired ones.”

“Well…okay. At least it’s acting hour in the inn. I get to watch people being booed off if I’m bored.”

Erin waved to the stage. The [Actors] were letting members of the crowd come up and try their hand at performing, usually with disastrous results in specific scenes. Then she brightened up.

“Hey! I should sell moldy produce to throw at them!”

“No, you shouldn’t. We have to clean that up.”

Drassi passed by Erin with a refill for all three mugs. She winked at Embria, who waved at her. Relc harrumphed.

“Just you wait. I’m gonna have my turn and be excellent.”

“Sure, Dad. In the meantime, have you ever fought on the water? One of my fellow [Wing Commanders] said you never did, but two of my former superior officers claim you were with them on several naval campaigns.”

Relc looked indignant. He reached for a french fry and stuffed it into his mouth, chewing furiously.

“Have I fought on the…of course! I used to eat Drowned Sailors for breakfast. And that’s, uh, not entirely a lie. There was this winter where—hold on. Is it my turn?”

He broke off, looked up, and shot to his feet. The [Actors] on stage were beckoning to him. Relc raced forwards.

“My turn! Sorry, I’ll tell you later! Hey! I want to be Macbeth with the dagger!”

That left just Erin and Embria. Amused, the two young women watched as Relc clambered onto stage, already looking around for his costume. Erin cleared her throat as she looked at Embria.

“Sorry about earlier.”

“No. I should apologize. I bit your tail off over nothing.”

Embria waved a claw. Erin shook her head.

“It was my fault. I was a jerk. It was my Pisces moment. Everyone wants their dad to be a hero. Right?”

The Wing Commander hesitated, then she nodded. Ruefully, she looked at the stage.

“I just wish they could see what I saw. I’m sure Senior Guardsman Relc is well-loved. But I knew him back when he was the Gecko of Liscor. And it wasn’t just an insulting nickname either.”

“He was cool, huh?”

Erin watched Relc posing with an imaginary dagger in front of him. She blinked as Relc delivered Macbeth’s soliloquy without a flaw.

“Wow. He’s not half-bad. And he memorized half the play in a single day.”

“He gets into things. Just don’t let him act. Please. I don’t think I could bear him quoting that weird language to me all the time. And if someone insults him, he will jump off the stage and start a fight.”

“Gotcha. Don’t worry, I think he’s too busy anyways. Plus, he’s too muscly for most lead roles. Maybe Othello? We can make it part-time at best.”

Embria nodded. She had no idea what Erin meant, but she was happy enough to eat from her plate of lasagna and watch Relc enjoying his moment. Erin watched her.

“How’s the food? Good?”

“It’s not bad. I’ll probably copy this for the 4th Company back in the barracks. Shouldn’t be too hard.”

Embria tapped the layered lasagna. Erin stared at her.

“You can make lasagna? Really? No one I talked to knew how to make it, at least not Drakes or Gnolls.”

The red-scaled Drake shrugged.

“I’ve never made it. But it’s not hard, right? Layer of noodle here, noodle here, cheese, bake it probably—it’ll go good. And if the idiots on mess duty can’t copy me, I’ll make them eat whatever comes out.”

She smiled, and Erin laughed.

“You have [Basic Cooking]? Or are you some kind of [Cook] as well?”

Embria waved her claw dismissively

“Some classes like [Mess Sergeant] get [Basic Cooking]. Myself, I never got anything like that. But cooking isn’t that hard, no matter what people think. You just need to learn what goes where and when and take calculated risks.”

“But how did you learn…?”

“Lots of practice.”

Embria pointed at Relc. He was coming down the stage, flushed with triumph to modest applause. Erin nodded slowly. Both turned to Relc as he strode up excitedly.

“Did you see? Line perfect! What you think—do I have a shot?”

“It wasn’t bad. Do you think you’ll become an [Actor], then? It would be a nice class to pick up for a few Skills, right?”

Embria raised her brows. Relc stroked his neck spines, looking smug.

“I mean, if I get the call. What do you think, Erin?”

“I think you should hope all four lead actors break a leg, Relc.”

“I can help with that.”

Embria smiled. Then she looked out the window at the moon.

“Unfortunately, I can’t help you with that. I think I have to go back. It’s going to be an early day tomorrow. And I can’t have anything more to drink. This was…fun. Same time next week, Dad?”

She looked back at him. Relc nodded.

“Sure. That would be fun.”

He looked surprised as he said it. Then he smiled. Embria agreed. She walked towards the door, her steps lighter than they’d been in a while. Erin, sitting at the table, saw Relc’s smile change, and then he half-rose, and called out after Embria.

“Hey. Have you ever thought of…quitting?”

She turned back. Erin held her breath. Relc grubbed at his neck.

“It’s—I mean, just—have you? It’s not like [Guardsman] pays a lot, but Senior Guardsmen get more. And while it’s fun being here, no one can keep up with me. Not even Klb. It’s lonely, being the toughest and the greatest. So if this army thing never worked out…would you do it?”

He looked at her. And Embria looked back. Erin held her breath as she watched the Drake study her father, and then the inn. Embria glanced about, and then smiled ruefully.

“If you became Watch Captain, I’d think about it. Later.”

“Right. Later.”

Relc smiled. Embria walked out the inn’s door. Erin held her breath. She stared at Relc.

“Does that mean you’re going to run for Watch Captain?”

Relc shook his head. The [Guardsman] sat at his table, staring at the remains of his plate. Then he smiled wearily, and looked at her.

“She said no, Erin.”

“Oh.”

“It’s okay. I think—”

Relc abruptly got up. Embria, who was walking down the street, heard the door open behind her. Relc bellowed down the street of Liscor.

“Hey kid! What time is morning practice? Your [Captains] and officers aren’t nearly as good as they were when I was in the army. They could use a good example. When do you train in the morning?”

Embria’s heart skipped a beat. She turned, laughing.

“It hasn’t changed! It’s the same as always! Come on by whenever!”

“Sure!”

Relc grinned. The door closed, and he stepped back. Erin stood next to him. She stared up at him.

“You don’t remember what time it is.”

“Nope.”



——



Wing Commander Embria walked back. Towards her barracks. Towards the only home she really knew. And she knew that tomorrow she’d have to deal with the High Command’s new orders. With Lism. With Shield Spider nests and perhaps the issue of a father who was too lazy to wake up in the morning. Or, conversely, a group of [Soldiers] who would not be happy to see him.

It didn’t matter. What mattered was a realization that Embria had. A strange feeling. Something had happened today. Something quiet, wonderful; something Embria hadn’t known could even happen.

Because she’d always had a father. Now? She had a friend.





6.30


Springtime in Liscor was disgusting. True, the initial rains had passed. And the muddy Floodplains were drying. A few valleys were still mudpits where the most stubborn amphibians and fish still clung to life, but the rest of the hills and valleys were now soil. And greenery.

The flowers were blooming. Little shoots of grass were poking up, the various species of grass—crabgrass, bent grass, centipede grass, fescues, zoysias, Sage’s Grass, and more, all fighting for a war of supremacy over prime real estate. Some of it was lovely, lush grass that anyone would want to walk through barefoot. Other types would punish the bared sole, or even the improperly maintained boot. But that wasn’t what was disgusting.

The disgusting things were the wildlife. Nature was in bloom, and accordingly, nature was ready to reproduce. And unlike Rock Crabs, which conducted their clandestine affairs in secret under the water and laid deep, hidden caches of their eggs, the rest of the natural world was reproducing fast. Especially the spiders.

Of the many varieties of dangerous spiders in the world, the Shield Spiders were a problem for Liscor. For Izril in general, but Liscor in particular. Shield Spiders weren’t as aggressive as Spear Spiders, but they laid vast nests. Traps they used to ensnare victims.

And Shield Spiders laid a lot of eggs. And in the springtime, they hatched. The average Shield Spider could lay a few hundred eggs in a single egg sac. Larger, older spiders could lay thousands. And they didn’t stop at one egg sac.

The nests writhed with hundreds of thousands of baby spiders crawling over each other. Eating each other. Covering their parents. Scuttling. And they descended on anything that fell into the nests. Corusdeer, rabbits, errant travellers…the spiders tore into flesh, crawled into openings, invaded organs, and already, began to reproduce again.

Monsters. And there were enough Shield Spider lairs to mean that their springtime reproduction might fully overrun the Flood Plains. Unless something was done.

In the closest Shield Spider lair, built not just two miles south of Liscor’s walls, was a burgeoning nest. The walls were coated with sticky silk, and the ground above was cunningly concealed by a thin layer to look like grass. If anything heavier than a rat stepped on it, the artificial terrain would give way and drop it into the nest. And the hungry spiderlings were already devouring a Fortress Beaver that had fallen in.

Now the thin veil of spiderweb parted again. Sunlight shone into the nest as something big hit the ground. The adult Shield Spiders, some the size of wolves and growing ever larger, scuttled forwards, ready to tear the prey apart. But the intruder had landed on its feet.

“1st Squad!”

The Gnoll roared as he lifted the mace. He brought it down and smashed the first Shield Spider’s head in. The second met a boot to the fangs and reeled back. The other Shield Spiders, sensing the threat, scuttled forwards. But more shapes were breaking through the firmament above.

Soil and grass cascaded down as Drakes and Gnolls leapt down. Five Gnolls and three Drakes hit the ground. One stomped a Shield Spider into the earth. They swung as they landed, cutting others, bashing them into the ground. Above, seven more members of 1st Squad waited. Captain Wikir bashed in another Shield Spider’s abdomen with one contemptuous strike. He turned, stomped a smaller, raccoon-sized one into the ground, and tore a finger-sized one as it climbed up his armor. He snarled.

“Kill the adults. Torches!”

The nest was still wet with morning dew. But webs were flammable. And as the 1st Squad cut down the biggest spiders and stomped, the smaller ones fled. Some crawled up the [Soldiers], biting frantically, but they were ignored or swatted. Torches came down, and the unhatched egg sacks, the walls of the nest went up. Captain Wikir climbed out of the pit, shaking off tiny Shield Spiders and growling in disgust.

“One down.”

Sergeant Gna helped her Captain out of the pit. Wikir accepted her paw and saw eight tiny Shield Spiders scuttle from his paw onto her fur. Gna grimaced, but pulled him out before flicking the spiders out of her fur. Wikir cursed, began to shake himself, and decided against.

“Damn. Get clear, the rest of you. I’m shaking these things off.”

“Watch out that they don’t get in your ears. Or nose.”

Sergeant Gna watched, amused, as Wikir stomped back to the pit and shook himself. It was burning. And the [Mage] attached to their squad was adding to the flames with controlled bursts of magic. The female Drake spellcaster raised her voice as the rest of the [Soldiers] who’d gone down to do the fighting tried to divest themselves of the tiny spiders in the same way.

“You could have let us set fire from above, Captain.”

“And let Pielt call me a coward?”

Wikir looked back. The oldest [Captain] in 4th Company grinned, baring his teeth in a predator’s smirk. He gestured to the pit.

“I went in. And if I have to pick these little things out of my fur all day, it’s fine. His squad gets to do these all by hand and torch. The rest of these we burn from above, just as planned. The big Shield Spiders come to us.”

“Efficient.”

The younger Gnoll grinned as well. So did 1st Squad. They looked around and saw more squads of 4th Company doing what they’d done. Hunting down Shield Spider nests and destroying them. And they weren’t the only ones; the Floodplains had a lot of people covering it today. Drakes and Gnolls, nearly a thousand in total.

4th Company was helping with what was a tradition for Liscor’s City Watch: culling the Shield Spider numbers before they could grow to a plague. It was a gesture of goodwill—and in practice, a good way to get on both the City Watch and Liscor’s good side. And that was important, especially today.

“Hope Watch Captain Zevara appreciates the work.”

Sergeant Gna remarked as she found a fine-toothed comb and approached her Captain. It was standard-issue; thorns and insect eggs were the least of what could get into a Gnoll’s fur. He grunted his thanks and let Gna comb his hair around his armor from behind. He was already working on one arm.

“Damn Pielt and his bets. 1st Squad! Keep moving! Find those nests! And don’t fall in; the last thing I want is wasted healing potions or broken bones! Get a move on—or do you want 3rd Squad to enjoy a night at Wishdrinks?”

“No sir!”

The female and male [Soldiers] got back to work with alacrity. Their tools were simple—long sticks to check the ground for telltale pits. They moved fast. This was a contest. Wing Commander Embria had promised a night of fun at one of the best taverns in the city, Wishdrinks, for whoever got the most nests.

Speaking of which…Gna and Wikir glanced left. They saw Wing Commander Embria, mounted on her warhorse, watching her company work. She wasn’t taking part, but she was hardly slouching on the job; her posture was military straight. Gna grinned.

“There’s our Wing Commander. And that’s why she’s a Wing Commander, eh, Captain? She’s not jumping into nests.”

“It. Was. A. Bet.”

Wikir bit out. He sighed and put away his comb, then stomped the mud and growing grass to kill the spiders he’d just tossed off him.

“That’ll do. But we’re all getting checked and a visit to the bathhouses. The last thing I need is for one of those little things to lay eggs in your ear.”

“They do that?”

“Hah. When I was a rookie, I heard about someone who got a bunch of these worm eggs in his head. Began acting weirdly. And then the swelling started. By the time they hatched out of the head, they were as large as…”

The [Captain] was grinning, regaling his subordinate with a tale, as his company searched for another nest. 2nd Squad, led by Captain Vell, was already on their third. A particularly large Shield Spider met a cluster of spears that sank halfway into the thick, hard shell, until Captain Vell herself cut off a leg, and the [Soldiers] took it apart from a distance. 4th Company was efficient.

The City Watch was slower, owing to lower levels and less motivation. But everyone was at work. The city was watching. The people of Liscor had taken to the walls to watch the annual spring culling with urbane amusement. And it was all going well. Embria cut a fine figure on her horse, her spear at the ready in case a giant Shield Spider emerged. Her crimson scales were a flash of color amidst the dull landscape. And 4th Company was working hard, brave [Soldiers] aiding in the safety of their city.

“Hear that cheering?”

Captain Wikir grinned at his Wing Commander as she rode slowly down a hill towards them. Embria smiled slightly.

“Good sounds, aren’t they? Keep it up, Wikir. Nice show.”

“Anything for the city, Wing Commander. And these elections.”

Wikir flicked at his fur. Embria nodded. She scratched the spines on the back of her head. The cheering was indeed coming from the city, and it was a surprise, but one that made both her and Wikir smile with pleasure. The army seldom received accolades when it returned home, but that was understandable. There were often issues. But a smaller group, say, 4th Company? It seemed they’d finally won the trust of the city. They’d only had to fight in a siege to do it.

“We’re making good progress. Three nests for 3rd Squad already. Don’t fall behind.”

“We won’t. And we’ll toast to you at Wishdrinks tonight.”

Wikir grinned. Embria eyed him.

“I’ll take that. You have night duty again tonight. Three days of break after that. I’ll be—er, having a dinner.”

“With Sergeant—no, Senior Guardsman Relc?”

Embria hesitated. She nodded casually, looking past Wikir at the teams working down the Floodplains.

“Is that a problem?”

The Gnoll thought carefully, watching his squad blasting another pit with flames. Sergeant Gna kicked a Shield Spider into the pit.

“Not from me, or my squad, Wing Commander. There was some talk when he appeared for morning practice. But you can’t fault the fact that he’s the only one better than you on the courts. And it’s not like it’s private ground; the Adventurer’s Guild is anyone’s territory. So…”

Embria nodded.

“Just let me know if there’re real complaints. Lieutenant Kesa can run her mouth.”

“Will do. And it helps that Senior Guardsman Relc appeared early. Beat half the trainees to be up.”

The middle-aged Gnoll caught the smile on Embria’s lips before she schooled her face. But he liked the pleased look he’d seen. It had been too long.

“That’s my d—uh, Senior Guardsman Relc. He may have quit, but you never forget. Punctual as always.”

That didn’t actually sound like the Relc that Wikir knew. But he kept his mouth shut. The cheering picked up from the walls of the city. He half-turned to look, trying not to show Embria his wagging tail.

“Looks like the civilians really like seeing Shield Spiders getting taken out.”

Embria nodded, very pleased. She looked back towards the city.

“Everyone enjoys a bit of action, Wikir. Especially exterminating monsters. Why don’t we have the [Captains] and [Lieutenants] use some flashier Skills? We can—what’s that?”

Wikir’s head turned. For a second, he didn’t spot what Embria was looking at. Then his eyes narrowed.

“Reinforcements? Wait—no—”

The Gnoll [Captain]’s curse was an echo of the oath that Embria shouted. The 4th Company and nearby City Watch [Guards] looked up. And they saw what Liscor’s citizens had already spotted from their walls. They turned.

It was a pounding in the ground that heralded them. As fast as a racing heartbeat. And there they came, out of the city gates, five abreast. Their shells gleaming. They ran forwards, accompanied by cheers from above. And their colors glowed in the morning light.

There they went. On the other side of the city, over the muddy hills, trampling newly growing grass shoots underfoot. Then, stopping. Pausing, to stare at the grass. At new life poking upwards, frantically growing. Staring at little insects and worms busily surviving in the mud. A passing bird. And, of course, the sky.

Three hundred. Far fewer than the City Watch deployed en masse, and far larger than the 4th Company of Liscor. But the Soldiers were an army unto themselves. They poured into the Floodplains and up the first hill, an unstoppable wave. Not just regular Soldiers either; they all bore markings on their carapaces, on their bodies. Each one was unique, each one individual.

The Painted Soldiers. But that wasn’t what chilled Embria’s blood in her veins. It was the figure leading them. A giant among the Soldiers. Like the rest, his carapace was marked by color. But he stood out again. Because his body bore no paint. The yellow splatters of color splashed across his chest, arms, legs, even his neck stood out. He led them.

Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] stood out even from the other Soldiers. He led them at a charge up the next hill; the Antinium sprinted after him. They didn’t pace themselves; they just ran, their footfalls thundering in unison.

Ahead of them, the City Watch was moving back. They’d identified dozens of Shield Spider nests, but, Embria noticed only now, hadn’t actually begun destroying any of them. She watched, with equal parts loathing and apprehension, as the Antinium ran to the unearthed pits, spreading out. Forming squads. Like her own.

The Painted Soldiers moved precisely, adopting squads, spreading out with an efficiency that put the 4th Company of Liscor’s army to shame. It was a connection facilitated by their Queen, by their nature. Soldiers were no True Antinium, but bereft of language, they had a connection that bordered on instinct. They could read body language, and like one multi-bodied organism, they could react to threats within moments, without needing vocal command.

And yet, the Painted Soldiers paused as they reached the first line of Shield Spider nests. And they turned their heads and bodies, looking up. At him, Yellow Splatters. And the [Sergeant] knew they were waiting for his order. So he raised one arm.

He did not have to open his mandibles. He could have nodded or just tilted his head a fraction of a centimeter. The Soldiers could have known what to do in a hundred more efficient ways. But he stood straighter, and the Soldiers below him watched, waiting. They wanted to hear him say it. Because he could. So Yellow Splatters pointed. His voice was quiet, but they heard it in their minds, bodies, and souls.

“Forwards.”

It was one command, but it triggered an avalanche. The Painted Soldiers poured forwards. They charged, and Embria saw the first, a Soldier with white-blue paint covering his shell like snow, leap. He crashed into the first Shield Spider pit, and Embria saw a Shield Spider go flying out of the pit a second later.

More Soldiers crashed into the pits after the first. They fought in brutal symphony, crushing, breaking, tearing apart the spiders with their four arms and legs. And before Embria could blink, the first Soldiers were already climbing out of the first pit, their bodies stained with Shield Spider blood.

“Dead gods.”

Wikir breathed, his face slightly pale under his fur. Embria’s voice snapped as she turned to him.

“Get ahold of yourself, Wikir. They’re aiding in the cleanup too. Get your squads moving! All of 4th Company, stop slacking off! Do you want the damn Antinium to show you up!?”

Her voice roused the 4th Company. They set back to work with a will. But the Painted Soldiers were moving even faster. If Embria’s [Soldiers] were running, the Painted Soldiers were sprinting. One with pink stripes reached down and ripped a Shield Spider’s head off its body. Another lifted a spider as large as he was up, capturing four of the eight legs, and a third mercilessly pounded the spider’s exposed belly until it burst.

Embria had seen Antinium fight. She had killed them. But even she was taken aback by the ferocity of this group. She watched them destroy another nest in less than a minute. Then her eyes travelled to the logical source of this oddity.

Him. Yellow Splatters had paused on a hill, arms folded like Embria. But he leapt into motion as she watched.

A giant Shield Spider, a mother, a matriarch as large as two wagons, had taken objection to the slaughter of her kin. She unearthed herself, clambering after a group of [Guards] that fled her and a swarm of her kin. The angry, giant Shield Spider crawled after them. Embria swore.

“2nd Squad, with me! Captain Vell—”

She charged her horse down the hill, her spear ready. But she was too slow. The Antinium were already on the move. A squad of eighteen Painted Soldiers rammed into the Shield Spiders, scattering them like pins. The giant Shield Spider screeched in fury. She snapped her mandibles, taking a Soldier by the chest. He struggled as she lifted him. And Yellow Splatters struck the giant Shield Spider’s side.

The crash as the [Sergeant] hit the Shield Spider made Embria’s horse halt. Embria watched as Yellow Splatters punched, cracking the mother spider’s side, then reached up. He grabbed a huge leg, and pulled.

The leg came out of the body. Yellow Splatters ducked as the giant Shield Spider swung towards him, letting go of the Soldier she’d captured. The [Sergeant] punched away a huge mandible. He retreated, but only to use the leg like a club, bashing at the smaller Shield Spiders around him. And then the rest of the Painted Soldiers arrived. They leapt, grabbing at the giant spider, breaking her legs, hammering at her sides, killing the smaller ones.

In minutes, the corpse had stopped twitching. The Soldiers moved past Embria and the silent [Captains] who’d answered her call. The Drakes and Gnolls watched as Yellow Splatters ran forwards. The Painted Soldiers streamed after him.

“Ancestors. Wing Commander. Is that what this new breed of Antinium can do? Some kind of improvement over regular ones?”

Captain Vell, unnaturally pale, breathed out slowly. She looked…uneasy. Embria couldn’t apply frightened to Vell. But Embria herself felt rattled.

“I’ll add more notes to my report. High Command is aware of this new type. But—damn them. They actually did it. That’s more than a Prognugator. That’s a leader.”

Embria glared at Yellow Splatters. She pointed at the [Sergeant]. Vell glanced at her, confused.

“There’s a difference?”

“Oh yes.”

The crimson-scaled Wing Commander bit out. She watched Yellow Splatters pointing and the Soldiers charging past him. They were too animated, even for Antinium Soldiers. She shook her head and then looked back at her officers.

“I never had the privilege of watching General Shivertail fight. Let alone General Sserys. But I heard that Zel Shivertail was no genius of strategy. And his army-wide Skills were few and far between. He was a monster in close combat and practically undefeatable there. But what made him terrifying was his skill as a leader. Not just a [Leader]. When he led, it was said that the Drake [Soldiers] who followed him turned into rampaging warbeasts, every last one of them. When he was fighting for home, no army from Baleros, Chandrar, the north, or anywhere else stood a chance. Because it was him.”

Vell’s eyes widened. Then her jaw dropped when she realized what Embria was implying. The Wing Commander shook her head.

“Maybe he’s low level. Or maybe he’s just hiding his true abilities. It doesn’t matter. He may not have a Skill, but when he starts getting some—some leaders are like that. Some [Squad Captains] too. But they’re a different breed from planners, or even regular [Generals]. I hear the Bannermare of Baleros and the King of Destruction are both nearly as good as General Shivertail was.”

“But Wing Commander—the Antinium don’t have morale.”

Captain Pielt protested. Wikir growled in disgust. He slapped Pielt across the back of the head with a paw.

“That’s what you see, Captain Pielt? Pluck out your damn eyes, then.”

The others went silent. They looked at Embria. She followed Yellow Splatters with her eyes. The Painted Soldier was moving on, letting his Soldiers clear nest after nest at breakneck speed. He was a reflection of her, standing alone. And that bothered Embria most of all. She saw him turn his head. And for a moment, their eyes met.

Then Embria turned away in disgust. Disgust and unease. Because she wasn’t sure if she had seen an anomaly or a new type of Antinium, one far more terrifying than even the flying monsters or the color-changing assassins. She looked at the quiet 4th Company and snapped.

“Well? Do you want them to take all the credit? Back to work! Blast those nests! Officers, use your best Skills! The Antinium may be machines, but they don’t have magic or Skills!”

“Yet.”

Vell muttered as she trudged back to her squad. Embria paused. And that one word scared her more than anything else. She turned back to watch. With the people of Liscor. The Painted Antinium marched on.

Onwards, across the Floodplains. Bright colors on dark shells. And they were laughing. Because he led them.

He had come back.



——



“Wow. That’s something.”

Erin Solstice stood on the hill outside of her inn, watching the battle. Well, it was charitable to call it a battle. It looked to her like pest extermination. The Shield Spiders certainly had about as much of a chance as regular spiders against the City Watch, the 4th Company, and the Painted Antinium.

Maybe if they’d been the giant behemoths that had assaulted Tyrion Veltras’ army, they could have fought back. But Shield Spiders of the smaller variety were dangerous to individuals. Not armies.

Erin wasn’t participating in the culling, of course; she was just watching. With a glass of lemonade in one hand, the most appropriate drink in the world. She glanced at it as she took another sip through a wooden straw.

“I had no idea that lemons were this plentiful on Izril.”

“Not Izril. They’re usually native to Baleros. But Oteslia, one of the Walled Cities, is famous for growing plants from across the world. They drive the cost down. Although, it’s still going to be a lot pricier than, say, cider. But we can sell this well. I’m surprised I haven’t ever had anything like this.”

Lyonette stepped up to watch with Erin. She had a pitcher of fresh lemonade in one hand. She glanced at Erin.

“Something else from your world?”

“One of the most popular drinks in the world. Besides Coke. It’s a classic.”

Erin sipped her drink absently. Lyonette nodded. She poured a small cup and reached down. A furry paw reached up for it.

“That’s your second glass. You only get two, Mrsha. And don’t share with Apista.”

The Gnoll nodded seriously. Then she drew a smiley face and patted her stomach.

“Oh? Glad you like it, Mrsha. We’ll try it on our guests tonight. But it’s really great for hot weather, you know. Either way…give me another cup, Lyonette?”

The [Princess] nodded. She handed Erin her cup and then filled another from a table. There were tables outside on the grass, and chairs. And customers. It was a special Shield Spider viewing morning, with a special on breakfast. Lyonette’s idea.

“Thanks.”

Erin handed Lyonette back her drink, took the new one, and went to find some of her guests. She slipped down one hill, balancing her drinks.

“Whoop. Whoop! Slippery! No, Mrsha, don’t follow. Who—ah, darn. Got some on my hands.”

She tsked, climbing up another hill with a much less steep gradient, and found a group at the top. Erin smiled and raised her cup.

“Hey! Anyone want to try some lemonade?”

The figures on the hill looked up. Pawn, kneeling in a patch of grass and pressing two of his hands to a Soldier’s leg, looked up. The Soldier was sitting on the ground. He had an open wound, from which green blood was oozing. Or—had been oozing. Erin blinked. His leg was healed. The Shield Spider bite he’d suffered was closed. As she watched, Pawn drew his hands back, and the Soldier flexed his leg experimentally.

“Nice. Using some healing potions, huh, Pawn?”

The Worker jumped. He hesitated, then nodded judiciously.

“I have been doing healing, Erin. Thank you. Fortunately, few Soldiers are getting injured. The Shield Spiders are not really a threat, and Yellow Splatters is leading the others.”

“So I saw.”

Erin stared at the Painted Soldiers still killing nests. It had been four hours, and they weren’t slowing down. Neither was 4th Company; the [Soldiers] seemed determined to win this competition, if it was one. The City Watch had decided it was not and started trudging back to the city. Erin anticipated guests to her inn. She decided Lyonette could handle it with the morning’s staff. She took another sip from her drink and smiled.

“Mm. Here. You want a lemonade, guys?”

She offered it to Pawn and the Soldier. The Soldier, who had bright green vines twining up his legs, looked at Pawn. The Worker hesitated.

“…What is it?”

“Sweet lemonade. That’s lemons plus water. And sugar.”

“Ah. We can consume that. Please give it to Twisted Vines. I will have some later, if there is more.”

“Sure. Hello, Twisted Vines! Want some?”

Erin offered the Soldier the cup. Reverentially, as if he were receiving the holy grail itself, the Soldier clumsily took the cup. He raised it to his mandibles and gently poured some of the liquid into his mouth. He paused. Erin and Pawn watched. Then, slowly, the Soldier poured a single drop of the lemonade into his mouth. He paused. For twenty seconds. Then he did it again.

“Uh—”

Pawn nodded. He looked at Erin.

“He is savoring it. He doesn’t wish to waste the lemonade, Erin. It is delicious to him.”

Twisted Vines raised one of his free hands and nodded. He ducked it, almost timidly, at Erin. Embarrassed, the [Innkeeper] looked at her nearly empty cup.

“He can have more! That’s what refills are for!”

“Nevertheless. Thank you, Erin.”

Pawn said it so genuinely that Erin had to turn and go bright red for a second. There was something off-putting about how grateful Antinium could be for a cup of lemonade. Even though she was used to it, it could hurt. But it also made the world clearer. Erin nodded.

“You’re going to tend to the injured here? You can do it at my inn, Pawn.”

“I should be closer to them. Just in case.”

The [Acolyte] rubbed two of his hands together absently. He watched as the Soldiers moved towards them. Erin nodded. She sipped, found her cup was empty, and nodded.

“If you like. I’ll be at my inn, reevaluating my life and being grateful and stuff. Come on over when you’re done! Bring your Soldiers! Lyonette wants to sell them stuff.”

“I will. Thank you.”

Pawn watched Erin go. Then he turned to Twisted Vines. The Painted Soldier was still savoring the cup, drop by drop. Pawn hesitated. Twisted Vines glanced at him, then carefully put the cup down. He stood up.

“You may stay. Finish your cup before you leave. That’s…necessary for your full recovery.”

The Worker ordered Twisted Vines. The Soldier glanced at his comrades, but did sit and pick up the cup. He drank, but more swiftly now. And Pawn stared at his hands.

All four of them. Then he looked at Twisted Vine’s leg. Gone was the visible interior flesh that had been exposed by the Shield Spider’s sharp mandibles. Pawn noted the remnants of the blood.

“Your wound doesn’t hurt? Did you feel any undue pain when I was—healing it? Does it feel functional now?”

Twisted Vines paused. He regarded his leg, then looked up and shook his head. Then he hesitated, and carefully put a thumb up. Purple Smile must have taught him that.

“Good. Inform me if it does hurt afterwards.”

Again, Twisted Vines nodded. He sat on the ground, finished his cup of lemonade, and then stood up. Pawn realized the Soldier had no idea what to do with the cup.

“I will take it back to Erin. You may go. If you must.”

Twisted Vines nodded. He handed the cup to Pawn, then turned and rejoined his brethren. Pawn sat on his hill and watched them fighting. He felt a desire to be below. But he knew he would struggle just to keep up with the Soldiers as they ran. And he had been assigned to this hill, to relative secrecy. Because Klbkch did not want many people seeing Pawn using his new Skill.

A new Skill. And Yellow Splatters. Pawn didn’t know which surprised him more. But he took both. Oh, he took what he had been given. And he had never felt more grateful.

He was back. Yellow Splatters. And part of Pawn’s internal hell, his damnation, had eased when he saw Yellow Splatters. But the [Sergeant] was…more than he had ever been. Far more. In body and in other ways. Pawn saw the Painted Antinium moving closer to the inn. And he realized they were done, at least for the moment.

Soldiers were streaming back across the Floodplains, many towards the city. Some were collecting the more edible Shield Spider corpses for processing. The rest were following Yellow Splatters. He directed them with efficient movements of his four hands, using the silent communication method of the Hive’s Soldiers. And in that, he was familiar to Pawn. The Worker raised a hand as he walked down the hill towards him.

“Yellow Splatters.”

The [Sergeant] looked up at him. And then his mandibles opened in a smile. He spoke.

“Pawn.”

And that word changed everything. Pawn halted for a moment. Yellow Splatters could speak. A Soldier could speak. But that wasn’t all. Yellow Splatters gestured to the Soldiers behind him with one hand as another pointed at the inn. Still two more were singling out Soldiers in the group behind him.

“I have two injured. Firestones, Azure Clouds, Pawn will tend to your wounds. The rest of you, proceed to The Wandering Inn. You will receive food there.”

The Soldiers obediently trooped ahead as two moved out of the ground. Pawn saw a bloody wrist on one of the four arms, and the second Soldier had a cut on one abdomen and cracks around his leg armor, perhaps from a bad fall. He reached out for them, even as he stared at Yellow Splatters, still with that awe.

He could speak. Fluently. Yellow Splatters had the natural intonation and speed of any natural speaker. He was better than Bird. And his voice was deep, commanding. Without hesitation. He was the same in many ways. But, oh, so different.

“Let me heal you.”

Pawn directed his attention back to the two injured Soldiers. Firestones and Azure Clouds obediently let Pawn press his hands against their wounds. The Antinium Soldier with burning coals etched onto his body in paint didn’t move as Pawn put his hands over his cut wrist.

“Be healed.”

The words were simple. But the prayer Pawn gave for that very thing to happen was from the core of his heart. And part of what was in that prayer was doubt. Uncertainty. But also hope. And faith that his hope would be—Pawn took his hands back. And the wrist, though stained with blood, was whole. Firestones looked down at his wrist, and the Soldier’s antennae waved with amazement.

“You too, Azure Clouds.”

The other Soldier let Pawn put his hands on his legs and stomach. And when Pawn removed the hands, the wounds were healed. Just like that. A healing potion could have done the same, but Pawn felt the healing being done. As if some of him had gone into the two. He felt tired, but only slightly. And they were healed. Yellow Splatters nodded.

“Join the others. We will follow you.”

The two Soldiers nodded. They walked past Pawn, but Yellow Splatters stopped them with a hand on each shoulder as they passed him. The giant among Soldiers, a head taller than any other Antinium, looked at the two.

“You have done well. Eat and rest. It is earned.”

That was all. But the two Painted Soldiers walked back to the inn with more pride than Pawn had seen in them…ever. The Worker looked at Yellow Splatters as the [Sergeant] held a hand to help Pawn up.

“You are different.”



——



The two walked up the hill of The Wandering Inn slowly, side by side. Their heights were different. Their bodies were similarly contrasting. But they were both Antinium. And they both knew each other. But Pawn felt like a stranger. Perhaps Yellow Splatters did too, because he kept glancing at Pawn.

It was one of the first times they had been alone. Since Yellow Splatters’ reveal in the streets of Liscor, that was. True, two days had passed. But Klbkch had kept Yellow Splatters moving, repeating his message of support for Krshia. And then the [Sergeant] had been surrounded by the Painted Soldiers. Pawn didn’t begrudge that. But now, walking with Yellow Splatters, he didn’t know what to say. He had a thousand questions. Ten thousand words. But how to begin?

“I am different. But the same. I can speak. And say the many things I would have said before my death.”

“What things?”

“Gratitude. Regret. Frustration—at not being able to say these things. Questions for you. Ideas. Things the Soldiers need. Questions. Thanks.”

The [Sergeant] looked at Pawn. The Worker shook his head.

“I didn’t do enough. I was—”

“Our salvation.”

“No.”

“Yes.”

“No, really—”

“Yes.”

Pawn looked up at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] smiled. And they reached the inn, bearing a silence more profound than any Pawn had shared with Yellow Splatters until now. And then Pawn saw the door was wide open. And he heard a familiar voice.

“Pawn! Yellow Splatters! Come in! Lemonade for my guys!”

Erin swept over to them in an instant. The tables were filled with Painted Soldiers—forty-nine of them to be exact. Each one had a bowl and was eating as they watched a performance on stage. Erin herself came to Pawn. She beamed as she grabbed some lemonade off a tray.

“Here. It’s fresh. Want some soup? I’ve got a big pot of this really great soup Lyonette came up with. Here, sit, sit! It’s so good to see you, Yellow Splatters. I mean, we said hi.”

“Yes.”

The [Sergeant] sat at a table offered by Erin. Pawn remembered Erin hugging Yellow Splatters after she’d found he’d returned. Even now, she looked misty-eyed, but she was already waving for more soup.

“Here! It’s hot, fresh, and, uh, probably not gluten!”

The bowl steamed as it appeared in front of Pawn. It was a clear broth with obvious bits of pork and what might have been Yellats mixed in with some other greens. Pawn raised a spoon before he could help himself. Instantly, his mouth was flooded with flavor. It had been far, far too long since he’d come aboveground.

“It’s delicious, Erin.”

“Really? I’m glad. This is only like fifty of the Soldiers, though, right? Are you bringing more in? Lyonette’s making a huge batch!”

Erin pointed at the kitchen. Pawn hesitated. Both he and Yellow Splatters had been given the morning’s orders by Klbkch, but he’d said nothing about the Soldiers having food. Just that they would meet him here.

“I…believe only fifty are normally allowed aboveground except for formal operations. But these Soldiers can rotate with the others.”

“Gotcha. I’ll let Lyonette know. Oh! And we’ve got special spoons and bowls for them to eat with. I’ll get—”

Erin half-rose, glancing down at the table. Pawn looked down too and nearly dropped his spoon. He stared at Yellow Splatters.

“Your hands.”

Pawn hadn’t noticed it before, but even Yellow Splatter’s hands were different. Two of his four arms were a Soldier’s arms. Functional. Deadly. Capped by clumsy fingers more suited for making a deadly fist than any other task. They could dig and fight and manipulate some things, but crudely. But the other two arms, the higher of the four, had been changed.

The limbs were thick. Reinforced. Suited for combat. But the hands were hands. Five digits, like a Worker’s fingers, had replaced Yellow Splatter’s previous hands. And they were gripping the spoon Erin had given him, meant for her regular clientele and Workers. As Erin and Pawn watched, he brought it up and transferred some soup into his mouth.

Delicately, carefully. As if he had always known how to use a spoon up till this moment. But he had never had a chance. Yellow Splatters looked up, noticing the stares.

“Thank you, Erin Solstice. It is good soup.”

Erin’s jaw dropped.

“You can speak. I mean, I know you can. But…wow. You can speak.”

“I can. And I will never be silent again.”

Yellow Splatters looked at the two of them and nodded once more. He tapped his chest with one hand even as another grabbed his cup and a third lifted the spoon towards his mouth again.

“Before, I had no words. That was me. And then I had words but no voice. And now I have more words. And they come from the same silent Soldier. And from heaven. From the voices of the many who have never had the chance to speak.”

Pawn was struck silent. Erin just looked at him thoughtfully.

“I’m so glad. Listen—I want to talk to you two, but there’s a lot of guests. Just sit there and wave if you want anything. I’ve gotta actually do my job for a bit. Coming, Lyonette!”

She stood up and went to the kitchen where Lyonette had been waving at her urgently. Pawn looked back at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] was silent as he ate his soup as greedily as any Soldier. Come to it—Pawn looked down and realized he was eating the delicious soup as well.

The Antinium’s meal was silent; they didn’t want to waste the food by talking, but it was interrupted near the end. A Drake and a Gnoll, regular guests, hesitantly came towards the table. The Drake nudged the Gnoll, and the Gnoll nudged back. They were both male, and at last, the Drake cleared his throat.

“Hell of a thing. The, uh, Shield Spider culling that was. We saw it from the walls. You’re…Yellow Splatters, right? The Soldier? The…war hero?”

Skepticism was written all over his voice. Yellow Splatters nodded. He put down his spoon and stood up. The Drake and Gnoll stepped back fast, and the nearby tables turned to look, but Yellow Splatter’s voice was calm and measured.

“I am Yellow Splatters. [Sergeant] of the Painted Antinium unit of the Free Antinium. Son of Liscor.”

“Oh? Wow. Uh, a pleasure. Sisl Taltail. And this is my friend, Wilr. We were just asking—are the Antinium really planning on funding an expansion to Liscor?”

The Drake was clearly nervous, and he didn’t hold out his claw to shake hands, which Pawn understood as being customary. But he didn’t run screaming either. Yellow Splatters nodded.

“Senior Guardsman Klbkch would not lie.”

“Of course not! I just—so the Antinium are willing to give gold to Liscor? Just like that?”

The Drake glanced around. Pawn saw some more non-Antinium customers lean in. Yellow Splatters nodded coolly.

“We are pledged to defend Liscor. That also means defending the interests of the city. We do not break our promises. Vote for Krshia Silverfang. And we will build your city. Workers to build and Soldiers to guard. It is our city too, after all.”

He looked around. Sisl opened his mouth for a second, and then nodded.

“Okay. Thank you.”

He backed off, staring at Yellow Splatters, but his Gnoll friend looked almost impressed. Yellow Splatters sat back down. Pawn stared at him as well.

“You speak with authority.”

“Yes. Should I not?”

The [Sergeant] looked blankly at Pawn. The Worker hesitated.

“But where does it come from?”

The Soldier pondered the question. Then he kept eating because the soup was getting cold. He raised his cup, sipped from it, and answered.

“Heaven, perhaps.”



——



Senior Guardsman Klbkch entered The Wandering Inn shortly after cleaning up some mud from his gear. He’d participated in the Shield Spider culling too, but the City Watch had vacated the field after the Painted Soldiers had proven so effective. Still, it was because of Relc’s tardiness that he and Relc reached the inn after the Painted Soldiers had been there for a good fifteen minutes. That irked Klbkch slightly. He would have preferred to study Yellow Splatters in person. Because the [Sergeant], the unique Soldier among Soldiers, was an enigma.

He had changed. Not that Klbkch had interacted much with the previous Yellow Splatters. But this new Soldier was different. Confident. Even outspoken. Had death changed him? Had a voice only unearthed what was there to begin with? Klbkch didn’t know. But today his mind was overfull with questions, speculations, and, perhaps, a bit of surprise.

Pawn and Yellow Splatters. One was predictable, at least in part. Klbkch had known about the Rite of Anastases being a success, even if he hadn’t been prepared for the personality of the [Sergeant]. But Pawn?

“A Skill unlike any other. The potential of that power is…or is it not? I must know what Xrn thinks.”

The Antinium sat himself down at a table at the back of the room, observing Yellow Splatters and Pawn. A yawn came from his left.

“What was that, Klb?”

“Nothing, Relc. And I am still irate at you. You are more slothful today than usual, which is an impressive event.”

“Thanks.”

“It is not a compliment.”

Relc sighed. He stretched out, and Klbkch leaned out of the way of an errant arm.

“Bite me. I’m tired, alright? I had to wake up super-early because of my kid—and she spars way too hard!”

“By that, do you mean she puts forth actual effort?”

“Bite me.”

“I will endeavor to do so if you continue irking me.”

“Yeah, yeah…hey! Close those mandibles!”

Relc sat up, groaning. He glanced at the stage and brightened.

“Ooh! New play! Awesome! Hey, mind if we get a closer seat?”

“I suppose it is not out of the question. I have to speak with my subordinates.”

Relc was already getting up, tail wagging, as the Players of Celum began a play Klbkch didn’t recognize. He nodded absently.

“Cool, cool. Wow, it’s busy in here. Look at all these Soldiers. And jerks drinking my blue fruit juice. Which is yellow. Is that a new drink? Hey! Hey, I’ll have—damn. What do you want, Klbkch?”

“I will have an ale. And a bowl of the soup. Please order it for me.”

Relc raised a hand as he sauntered forwards. Klbkch walked towards the table with Pawn and Yellow Splatters. He sat across from them.

“Report.”

The two looked up, mildly startled. Klbkch stared at them. They were…it was so strange, looking at them. Not because of their bodies, but because of what they represented. An incalculable amount of worth each, where generations upon generations of Soldiers and Workers had died, sacrificed in the hopes of becoming exactly what they were.

But now that Klbkch had them, he wasn’t certain what to do with them. He wasn’t certain he remembered…what it was like to have other thinking Individuals in his Hive. Could he trust them with the Antinium’s true purpose? Did his Queen? Klbkch didn’t know. But they were valuable.

And yet—Klbkch looked at them. And he felt little connection, little to empathize or even sympathize with, in them. They were so unlike the Antinium he had known.

He felt…old.



——



“I see.”

Pawn still felt uneasy talking to Klbkch. Now that he had met so many people, even other Antinium, he could sense Klbkch’s reserve like a wall in front of him. The Revalantor of the Hive listened impatiently as both gave their reports. Yellow Splatters’ was shorter than Pawn’s; Klbkch listened intently as Pawn described healing four Soldiers.

“That aligns with both tests I had you perform. It appears your ability recharges itself after rest. Much like Skills in that category.”

“Yes, Klbkch.”

Pawn ducked his head. Klbkch stared at him. Then his gaze shifted to Yellow Splatters.

“Your combat ability is also improved, despite your loss of ten levels from resurrection. It is to be expected as well. The Free Queen had modified your body for improved musculature and performance.”

“Yes. Will all Soldiers become like me?”

Yellow Splatters looked at his hands. Klbkch shook his head instantly.

“Changing the…specific formulas of the Soldiers’ creation is an intensive process. It is one thing to shape an Antinium as it is being formed. Another to make the process default, without the need for supervision. You are unique.”

“Then I will lead the Painted Soldiers. That is my duty.”

Again, Klbkch shook his head. The Revalantor’s voice was sharp, and Klbkch himself felt annoyed.

“Your duty is to survive. You are an investment in time and effort. Let other Soldiers die before you.”

He waited for Yellow Splatters’ affirmative, but the Soldier didn’t immediately give it. He stared at Klbkch, and the Revalantor felt a prickle on his carapace. If it had been any other Soldier before then, Klbkch would have taken that as a sign of potential Aberration or Individuality. Yellow Splatters folded two of his arms.

“I am unlike any other Soldier. I am their leader. That was why I was brought back. I lead them. So does Purple Smile. We must lead because we do what they cannot. If we die leading from the front, that is inevitable.”

Pawn sucked in his breath. Klbkch just stared. It sounded like an echo of an argument he’d had once in the past. He hesitated. And something inside of him twisted. It was an unfamiliar, unpleasant feeling. Like when he had seen Erin hurt. But he felt it now?

“You have your orders.”

“But I am no Soldier. I am their [Sergeant]. I must show them courage.”

Klbkch sat back in his chair. Pawn was afraid, but Yellow Splatters didn’t look away. For a moment, the Revalantor just looked at Yellow Splatters and Pawn. And he felt the strange, pained, familiar tugging inside of him worsen. Like arrowheads, cutting into his heart.

At last, Klbkch roused himself. He put thorns into his words, this time. He stared at Yellow Splatters and opened his mandibles slowly.

“Courage? Courage is a value of heroes. Of champions, of other species. It is not an Antinium concept. We have had heroes. They are dead. And you cannot replace them, Yellow Splatters. You are not Galuc. He was Centenium. Taller than you. Stronger. You bear a flawed, incomplete copy of his body. You are weak. Weaker than I and far weaker than he. I know this. Because I am Centenium. You are a Soldier. So obey.”

He met Yellow Splatters’ gaze until the Soldier nodded. Klbkch turned to Pawn.

“And you. You can heal a smaller wound in moments. Six times in an hour. Any quality healing potion can do far better. This ability is unprecedented. Useful. But neither of you two have qualities invaluable to the Hive. Cultivating those abilities is your function.”

He felt a twinge of guilt at those words. Why? Klbkch forced it down and went on.

“Both of you are forbidden from discussing the nature of your classes or levels. Especially in Pawn’s case. Nor will you reveal any secrets of the Hive. Is that understood?”

“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”

“Yes.”

They said the words quietly. Meekly even. And Klbkch felt as if he were lecturing two rookie [Guards] in the City Watch. Only, he wouldn’t have used those words. There was need for empathy in the Watch. And Klbkch had a small attachment to some of the [Guards]. But Antinium weren’t the same. Soldiers and Workers were…

Disposable. But these two weren’t. Klbkch hesitated. He could see hurt in Pawn’s expression. And Yellow Splatters?

They waited. Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles a few times. And that roiling feeling in his stomach forced the next sentences out of his mandibles.

“Continue exceeding my expectations. A rotation of…fifty Soldiers may remain aboveground at all times under supervision as per our agreement with Liscor. They may stay at Erin’s inn during permissible work hours or continue patrolling the city.”

The two Workers couldn’t blink, but they did move slightly in shock. Klbkch stood up briskly. Yellow Splatters raised a hand.

“Revalantor Klbkch. May I also request a stipend for the Soldiers? As a reward—as motivation for further growth and advancement?”

Pawn held his breath. Klbkch never granted him a larger budget. The Revalantor hesitated. Then, almost grudgingly, he turned back and nodded.

“Four silver coins and six copper per Soldier or Worker. You may withdraw a lesser bag of holding for usage.”

Abruptly, he walked away. Pawn gaped with his mandibles open at his back. Yellow Splatters lowered his hand slowly. They looked at each other until Erin Solstice came back out of the kitchen.

“Hey! Sorry, I had to help make some food real quick. Was Klbkch just here? Was he nice? I heard him talking to you when I passed.”

“He is our Revalantor. His job is not to comfort us, Erin. He was very instructive.”

Pawn answered diplomatically, staring at Klbkch’s back. Erin pursed her lips, unconvinced. She leaned over and shouted at Klbkch.

“Klbkch! You’re a bad dad!”

Pawn froze up at his table. He saw Klbkch turn around in his chair. The Senior Guardsman eyed Pawn and then addressed Erin.

“I am not their father in any sense of the word.”

“Says you! Relc’s a better dad!”

Relc looked up as he slurped from a bowl. He laughed and slapped Klbkch on the shoulder.

“Hah! Hear that, Klb?”

“Do not hit me.”

Klbkch jabbed Relc with an elbow. He looked almost irritated at Erin, certainly at Relc. He was expressive with them. Not with Pawn or Yellow Splatters. The Worker wasn’t sure—no, he was sure how he felt about that. Erin put her hands on her hips in disgust.

“That guy. I’m gonna give him what for when I get to his table. But for now—sorry. I forgot to do this! Here, Yellow Splatters, lean in?”

“Lean wh—”

The [Sergeant] looked up. He moved back, and Erin surprised him and Pawn both by grabbing their shoulders. She hugged them both, a long, tight hug that warmed both Antinium from within. They stared at each other, and then at her. Pawn hesitantly reached a hand up. Yellow Splatters was still.

“I’m glad you’re back.”

That was all Erin said to Yellow Splatters. But her watery eyes said it all. She wiped at them.

“Thank you. I never got to say it, but thank you. When the Goblin Lord and—I saw your guys. And Pawn told me what you did. I’m so sorry—but thank you. I know it seems like they died for nothing. But you saved me. And I wish—”

She sniffed hard and wiped her eyes again. Pawn looked at Erin, aghast at her tears. He stood up.

“It was not in vain. They are in—”

A hand grabbed one of his. Yellow Splatters looked at Pawn, and the Worker froze. Erin didn’t notice. She wiped her eyes again and smiled brightly.

“It wasn’t in vain. I know that. Definitely. And I want to do something—oh! Hold on. Let me get something for you.”

She hurried back into the kitchen, calling for Lyonette again. Pawn looked at Yellow Splatters. He sat.

“Why did you stop me?”

“It is not for her.”

“What? Heaven? I know that. But she can know they are there.”

Yellow Splatters shook his head after a moment’s pause.

“But it is not hers.”

The Worker looked at him. Pawn opened his mandibles, but he couldn’t conceive of arguing. Instead, he sat closer to the table. And some of the questions bubbling away at him poured out.

“What is it like? Are there gods there? Is it in the clouds? How many—how many of us are there? Is it really…heaven?”

His heart beat anxiously in his chest. And he believed, he tried to believe, he truly did. But the proof sat in front of him. And when Yellow Splatters met his eyes, Pawn felt hope and something as pure as faith blossom in his chest.

“Yes. It is there.”

Pawn exhaled. Slowly. The feeling he had was—

“How? Was it always there? What does it—”

Yellow Splatters was shaking his head.

“Only those who believed could find it. And it was…”

The [Sergeant] broke off. He reached up, his mandibles opening and closing, towards the ceiling.

“It looked like…felt…like…as…”

The words trailed off. At last, the Soldier sat back and shook his head. He met Pawn’s gaze.

“If there were words that could describe it, it could be built here. But there are not. It was…satisfying.”

“Satisfying?”

The Worker’s antennae waved in puzzlement. Yellow Splatters nodded slowly, mulling it over.

“More than that word. Yes. Satisfying. Peaceful. Warm. But fragile. It must be guarded and grown. By the Painted Antinium. They must know it exists and fight for it. Fight to live so that death has worth.”

Each sentence struck Pawn like a blow. He wanted to fall to his knees. Instead, he gripped the table, overcome by wordless emotion. At last, he looked up, and his voice trembled.

“I am so sorry. I asked so much. I did not know the cost. If I could have, I would have died. But they all—all of them—”

It was what he’d wanted to say. Had to say. The words poured out.

“—should have stopped you. Or listened. Or done something better. The spells—I didn’t know. I had to do it for Erin. But I—I—”

He trembled like a leaf. Yellow Splatters looked at Pawn until the shaking words ran out and Pawn was just shaking. Then the [Sergeant] reached forwards with two hands. He rested them on Pawn’s shoulder, and two more found Pawn’s hands on the table. The Painted Soldier spoke.

“We forgive you.”

If Antinium could but weep, Pawn would have. But he had not learned how. So he only sat, overcome, until Erin came back with something in her hands.

“Hey guuuuuuuys. Guess what I just got from our Acid Fly traps?”

The Worker and Soldier looked up. They’d had breakfast, but lunch appeared in front of Pawn. And this time—the Worker inhaled suddenly as Erin placed a cup and bowl in front of him.

“Blue fruit juice. Acid Fly bowl, extra heaping. With an egg on top! Sunny side up!”

She spread her hands, beaming. Pawn stared down at the bowl in front of him and Yellow Splatters. Small, tiny black shapes, Acid Flies sans the acidic abdomens, were piled up in the bowl. A fried egg glistened on top of the black heap, just waiting for the yolky goodness to run down and flavor the Acid Flies.

“Acid Flies?”

“It’s breeding season! And you know what that means! Lyonette just got a bunch. Sorry, we had to make sure Mrsha knew not to play around with them, and Apista does not like them either. But yeah. This is the first bowl. Who’s my taker?”

Pawn stared at Yellow Splatters. Yellow Splatters stared at Pawn. They both answered at once.

“He is.”

Erin slapped her forehead.

“You two are too nice. Let me get another. And we’ll have some for all the Soldiers who come in today! Not huge portions; we’ve gotta build up a stock. But today?”

She looked at Yellow Splatters and put a hand on his shoulder, smiling.

“Free of charge. Until we run outta Acid Flies and eggs. A back-from-the-dead special.”

The [Sergeant] looked up at her. And for the first time since coming to the inn, Pawn saw him smile. And that was so familiar, that he felt a warm feeling in his stomach. Erin beamed. Behind her, Lyonette sighed. But she didn’t object.

“Well then. Blue fruit juice for all! Acid Flies on the house for anyone who asks! Not you, Relc. And I present to you a new play by the Players of Celum! Enjoy!”

Erin waved at the stage, and the [Actors], flushed with excitement, took a pre-play bow. Another bowl and cup appeared in front of Pawn. He stared at the little bugs. Yellow Splatters looked uncertain.

“I have never had these. I think.”

“You must. They are the best things to eat. Ever.”

Pawn reassured him. Yellow Splatters reached for his spoon, then hesitated again.

“The other Soldiers are waiting. They should have sustenance. There may not be enough.”

This was true. Pawn put a hand on Yellow Splatters’.

“Yes. But there will be food for all who come. And you lead them. You must enjoy yourself.”

The [Sergeant] paused, and then nodded. He reached for his cup with another hand, and Pawn took his. They touched glasses tentatively. And then both began to eat. On stage, the Players began their act. And Erin, pausing to argue with Klbkch, help serve food, came back to talk with them. And give another hug.

Pawn ate next to Yellow Splatters, deciding how long the Soldiers would get before they had to rotate out. He saw Lyonette overseeing the staff, radiant, and covered with a light sheen of sweat. A little white Gnoll crept up, sniffed his bowl once, and decided she wasn’t interested. And Pawn sat amid it all, in the inn where he had become him.

He had been happier before. Deliriously happy. Overjoyed. But this was deeper. Quieter. Perhaps even more filling. The word was…satisfying. And Pawn thought he knew what heaven might be like. Someday, he would find out. But right now?

He was just happy.



——



The stream of Painted Soldiers entering and leaving Erin Solstice’s inn was obviously a good source of revenue. And the efforts of the Antinium in clearing the Floodplains had naturally aided in keeping the population of Shield Spiders down. And yes, true, the new play was sure to be of note to anyone who valued such things. But for Liscor, the happenings of The Wandering Inn were, for once, relatively unimportant. Because something big was happening to Liscor.

Elections. Democracy. The streets were abuzz with the idea of both. And that was the narrative that gripped the hearts and minds of Liscor. Because the world revolved around this issue. The story, the narrative of destiny, depended on the outcome. It wasn’t about Antinium, or the inn. The main story was, obviously, Liscor’s story. How could it not be? And the Antinium and Yellow Splatters’ revival, for all they were significant, were just a part of the real narrative. Backdrop.

And the election for Liscor’s City Council was heating up. In the city, for the third day running, traffic around Market Street came to a nearly complete standstill. But the street was hardly inactive.

Krshia Silverfang stood on a platform created by a pair of [Carpenters] overnight. She didn’t cup her hands to shout this time; she used a small speaking amulet to amplify her voice. And she was not alone.

“If we want to build a better Liscor, it starts with a better Council, yes? Funding for the City Watch! A better Adventurer’s Guild! A larger city! Force the Council to hold an election! And we will get to work.”

The Gnoll woman waved at the people standing to her right and left. And the crowd of Drakes and Gnolls in equal numbers looked up and murmured at the other three figures on the platform.

Raekea, one of the finest smiths in the city, and the best [Armorer] in truth. Elirr, a beloved [Beast Trainer]. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, a veteran [Guardswoman] trusted by all. They waved at the crowd and got cheers of support. Krshia raised her voice.

“You all know these Gnolls! Each one is respected! Each one would help change the city! Isn’t it better to know who is on the Council, rather than let them elect themselves? Why should we not have a voice? If you agree, find the Council members! Ask them why they are not allowing a vote! And remember—we can have a better Liscor!”

She raised her paws to a huge cheer. Because Krshia’s message was a simple message, and her plan was easy to grasp. You could articulate it after hearing it once. And the Gnoll’s speech had legs.

Selys Shivertail, sitting in the shade of one of the stalls on a stool, watched how many people were moving past or in and out of Market Street. It occurred to her that Krshia could use one of the city’s plazas, but here was the thing: you could avoid a plaza. It was hard to avoid one of the most frequently used streets in the city. And Krshia was campaigning in this district. Assuming the election got passed. Assuming she won.

But they were good assumptions as far as Selys was concerned. She eyed a group of excited, young teenagers hurrying away and shot a glance to her left.

“Looks like we’re getting more and more people coming here to listen to Krshia by word of mouth alone. And a lot of people already heard her. Think they’ll put pressure on the Council?”

“If the eight different requests for a detail of [Guardswomen] to escort the Council across the city isn’t an indication, I don’t know what is.”

Watch Captain Zevara smiled crookedly as she watched the crowd. Normally, this was the kind of thing she would be worried about, but the energy of the crowd pleased her in a perverse way. Here she was, subverting the natural order of law in the city. It was an odd feeling.

As were her co-conspirators. Zevara glanced down at Selys. The [Receptionist] was checking off her notes for the day’s rally. And she did have notes. Zevara had thought all Selys was good for was the money, but she was a [Receptionist], after all. The Drake nodded to herself and then looked up.

“Oops. Looks like Krshia’s going to hand off the speaking stone to Raekea. Good thing too; we should really buy a tonic for her throat, not just a healing potion. Krshia! Hey, Krshia! Over here!”

Selys waved to Krshia. The Gnoll’s ears perked up as she descended from the stage. The crowd surged around her for a moment, but let up as the burly Gnoll woman, Raekea, began to speak. Krshia was smiling, waving as she tried to push through to Selys—Zevara eyed her as she finally got there, panting.

“Maybe I should assign a few of the City Watch to you to keep you clear of the crowds, Krshia. You and your four candidates.”

“No. It’s better this way, yes? I can talk to people.”

Krshia panted as she wiped sweat from her brow, despite it not being that warm in the morning at all. Selys offered her a flask of water, and Krshia drank greedily. She shook her head, sending a droplet of sweat onto Zevara’s cheek.

“Sorry. I have been speaking all morning. Raekea will go next, then Elirr and Beilmark. They are the most popular, so I think they will be well-received. I have four more candidates, one for each district. We may not take them all, but we can try, yes?”

Selys consulted her notes, frowning.

“We can do more than try. I think the Council will have to issue a vote. Six of them have said they’ll okay a vote. Maybe even by the end of the week? We have to keep the pressure up so they actually pass an election vote, or they’ll definitely renege on their promise.”

Krshia and Zevara nodded in agreement. They both turned to look at Raekea. Krshia bared her teeth in a grin.

“She’s speaking well. And we’ll let her and Elirr hold this spot, yes? Beilmark has her duty, but she can answer questions on the job. And in the meantime—”

She pointed down the street. Selys nodded.

“We’ve got a crowd ready. And a stable platform for you to stand on. Need a stamina potion? A break?”

“Neither.”

The [Shopkeeper]’s eyes lit up fiercely. Selys smiled. She whistled, and when the heads of those nearby turned, a shift in the crowd revealed a group of Gnolls and Drakes breaking off from the rest. Krshia clambered on top of a platform held up by some of the strongest in the group—just in time. A ratatatat of drums and a loud, magically enhanced voice heralded a new arrival. Lism and his supporters swept into Market Street with a squad of 4th Company marching at their head, trying to drown out Raekea’s speech.

But this time, Krshia was organized. Her supporters were out in force, Gnolls and Drakes. And they outnumbered Lism’s side nearly two-to-one. Her crowd pushed forwards, forcing Lism’s back, and suddenly Raekea was calmly moving back, hopping off the platform as she continued her speech, carrying the curious crowd away from Lism while Krshia’s supporters and his clashed. It was coordinated; Gnolls had to shove her a path and the tall [Smith] was large enough that people could see and follow her.

The Drake [Shopkeeper] hissed as he saw a good number of his audience leave. He shouted at Krshia from his platform.

“Don’t you have anything better to do than blockade a street, Silverfang? Or is obstructing business really in everyone’s best interests?”

“I am simply speaking about a matter which concerns Liscor’s future, Lism. Why are you arguing against my plans? Is that in the city’s best interests?”

Krshia shot back. Lism rolled his eyes as he shouted at the crowd, some of which were already booing him.

“Don’t listen to this mad-Gnoll, people! Remember, she wants to have the Antinium’s help! Her plan about the walls is just inviting their trap. Don’t fall for it. We don’t need to even have an election, remember! She’s brought all this up, like some agitator, no, [Saboteur]!”

His words created a rumble from his crowd, but it was drowned out by the loud shouts of denial from Krshia’s side. She smirked at Lism as he colored.

“Don’t do this. Don’t do that. If you have better ideas, Lism, loudly shouting that you are, you should say them, yes? How would you fund new construction? Pay the City Watch? Expand the Adventurer’s Guild? Will the army pay for all of it? And did they have the coin all this time, if so, why did they wait until now to offer it?”

Lism hesitated, then ignored the question.

“We don’t need Antinium support. We’ll bring back three more companies—”

“Three hundred [Soldiers]? I’m sure that will stop every single threat that has assailed Liscor over the last year, yes? Giant Face-Eater Moths. Raskghar? An entire army? Two?”

“If I’m elected—”

“You just said we don’t need an election! Tell me, Lism, is it really an election you don’t want? Or is it that you want to bring our soldiers back? Which is it, hmm?”

Krshia smoothly interrupted Lism. The Drake choked and tried to shout over her, but his speaking stone was inferior to hers, and she smoothly adjusted her volume to speak over his voice.

“I wouldn’t want to compromise our army’s ability to fight abroad, would you, Lism? I would rather our brave soldiers do the fighting without splitting their number. Wouldn’t bringing them back weaken our army? Four companies staying here—that is a fifth of our army’s strength, is it not? Would you weaken them so much? Where will we house them in the city? Oh. Wait. Perhaps we should build more walls?”

A roar of laughter drowned out Lism’s reply. And then a chant.

“Build more walls! Build more walls!”

Selys listened, smiling. She turned to Zevara.

“I like it. It’s catchy. I don’t know what bothers Erin about it.”

She looked back just in time to see Lism choking, waving for attention. The Drake’s voice was more than a little furious, and Selys heard the wobble in his tone.

“If—if you think—this is about the Antinium, people! Don’t forget that! You can’t trust them!”

“Oh? And I suppose the army is trustworthy? Where were they when the Raskghar attacked? The moths? What about the Goblin Lord? Where were they, Lism?”

And the [Shopkeeper] had no response. His eyes darted left and right as he struggled for an answer. Krshia was already moving onto her next point. She caught Selys’ eye as she turned to the crowd and winked. Selys winked back.

Organization and strategy. There was a lot to be said for having a [Receptionist] on your side, and one of those things was planning out what you were going to say. This wasn’t a market-stall shouting match, and Lism really didn’t have a plan. This time, Selys saw heads focusing on just Krshia, and even some of Lism’s supporters looked uneasy.

Because Krshia was right. They could either build Liscor out, expand the Watch, improve the Adventurer’s Guild…or do nothing. And who wanted to be on the side of nothing? There was always Lism’s plan, of course, but it wasn’t solid. Selys turned to Zevara in delight.

“We’re winning. I’m pretty sure of that.”

The Drake nodded, smiling. She stepped over to speak to Selys when a group of Drakes pushed through the outer edge of the crowd. They made a beeline for Zevara and Selys. One of them, a Drake in his thirties, waved a claw urgently.

“Watch Captain Zevara. What do you think about this election? Are you really for it?”

Zevara turned smoothly, and Selys settled back. It wasn’t the first time the Watch Captain had gotten this question. Zevara flashed a fake smile, which was her best attempt, and spoke to the lead Drake.

“Speaking solely as a personal citizen and not for the entire City Watch, I’m for Krshia’s proposal to expand our—er, the City Watch’s budgets. I approve of her spending plan and would welcome an election.”

“And this is really in the city’s best interests?”

The Drake demanded a touch incredulously. Zevara shrugged.

“I can tell you that the current Council has not approved any increase in the City Watch’s budget. Make of that what you will.”

The Drakes looked troubled. One of them, a woman, scratched her cheek scales.

“No increase? But that’s madness. If it’s that or doing this democracy thing—”

“It’s dangerous. I hear one minute you’re having a little vote, the next there are useless [Senators] and [Politicians] up to your earholes.”

“If it’s that or pull in more of the army—”

“Have them quartered here, full-time? Causing trouble? I’d rather have the Antinium myself. Did you see them smashing those Shield Spiders this morning?”

The group began arguing. Zevara and Selys exchanged a delighted glance. It was working. And Zevara hadn’t needed to check her script! The Watch Captain stepped back with Selys, poised to answer more questions. Selys rifled through her folder.

“You can bring up the potential of more trade if Liscor begins actually farming the dungeon as a commodity. And I can talk about the uses of monster parts. Why don’t you—”

Before she could finish, a Drake pushed through the crowd. He was wearing armor and the insignia of Liscor’s Watch on his uniform. He waved a hand at Zevara.

“Captain, a word? There’s a bit of trouble by the brewery.”

Instantly, Zevara’s gaze sharpened. She took a step and then turned to Selys.

“I’ve got to handle this. Mind covering for me?”

“Of course.”

Selys watched as the two left through the crowd. The Drakes and Gnolls protested as Lism and Krshia’s shouting match continued in the background, but the two members of the City Watch were on business now. So it was Selys’ turn. She shuffled her notes, and then called out in a bright voice.

“I can answer any questions in place of Watch Captain Zevara!”

The Drake in his thirties turned to blink at Selys. He hesitated, and then squinted at her face.

“Hold on. Aren’t you that [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild? General Shivertail’s…what do you know about all of this?”

The [Heiress] put on her best smile. She took a deep breath, and then remembered something.

Liscor didn’t have a brewery.



——



Selys was right. Liscor did not have a brewery. It had inns, taverns, both of which would make their own beverages with fermented barrels and hops in some cases. Or it imported alcohol. But a dedicated brewery was considered unnecessary; beer wasn’t that popular. Or great. Now, distilleries on the other hand…

Zevara knew this, of course. It was a classic code the City Watch used. She followed the [Guardsman] through the crowd and back towards the City Watch barracks at a quick trot.

“What’s the real issue, Guardsman Tells?”

“Not for me to say, Captain. Sorry. I was just told to bring you.”

Zevara frowned and her tail began to twitch faster.

“By who?”

For an answer, Tells pushed open the door to the barracks. Zevara walked inside and saw a crowd of twenty-one Drakes. Three Gnolls. They were mostly off-duty, but she knew each one. And she recognized the Drake waiting at their head. Zevara paused, and her mind raced as she slowly looked around.

“Senior Guardsman Jeiss. Guardswomen. Guardsmen. How can I help you?”

The crowd of Liscor’s finest—and only—law enforcement shifted. It was Jeiss, Beilmark’s partner and one of the most respected Senior Guardsman pairs, who answered.

“It’s this election thing, Watch Captain. We’ve been listening to the gossip, and it sounds like the Council will actually hold an election. Are you really for Krshia Silverfang?”

The group behind him shifted uneasily. Zevara folded her arms, but she wasn’t about to shout them down. This was different, and she knew that Jeiss calling her out was…well, she wasn’t going to shout. She chose her words carefully, working off of Selys’ script.

“I’m not for putting any one person in power if that’s what you’re asking, Jeiss. This is certainly not a coup or something, if you’re worried. For one thing, we aren’t the army, even if we are the City Watch. Krshia Silverfang wants a seat on the Council, and I’m giving her my aid. But it stops there. She’ll do what’s best for the city, and I don’t expect to control the Council. I’ll swear that on a truth spell, first off.”

The [Guards] in the room relaxed slightly on hearing that. Zevara made a note to do it, even if they didn’t ask at the end of this. You had to prove what you said, or they’d wonder. She went on.

“It’s my decision as an individual that we need funds. The City Council’s refused my proposals three times. I can’t expand our ranks or get better gear any other way. So, yes. I’m willing to push for elections, even if it means accepting the Antinium’s support.”

There was a murmur at that. Jeiss bit his tongue and looked at the others.

“Okay, Watch Captain. But…turning this into an election? It just feels like we’re going against the laws of the city, like Shopkeeper Lism’s been saying. And I respect Senior Guardsman Klbkch. But you know, the Antinium…”

He looked at Zevara and shrugged. She bit her tongue. The crowd was mostly Drake, but she knew how they felt. And she agreed in part, especially about the Antinium. She sighed, scratching at her neck.

“Jeiss, if I thought there was another way, I’d take it. But you saw what we’re up against. Krshia offered me funding for the City Watch. The current Council won’t. They rejected my offer three times, citing ‘lack of funding’. If it meant getting the City Watch what we need, I’d back anyone in an election. Anyone except that crazy Human.”

A chuckle ran through the crowd. Jeiss smiled, but then it faded.

“And the Antinium?”

Zevara looked up.

“We let them expand their Hive with the city. We put more Soldiers on the walls, and let more into the city. If they wanted to stab us in the back, they could have done it any number of times over the last decade. That’s my perspective. You have a different one?”

She waited for Jeiss’ response. He bit his lip, shook his head reluctantly, and then sighed.

“If you’re doing this, your job’s in jeopardy too, Captain.”

Zevara nodded slowly.

“I know that. The next Council could replace me. Or this one might, if things go south and Krshia doesn’t get her vote. Either way, that’s my decision. The City Watch stays neutral. I’m just a private citizen. With a lot of influence. I won’t ask you to do anything to support Krshia or help me keep my job. Got it?”

There was a lot of nodding, which was encouraging. Zevara had seen City Watches turn against their Watch Captains, and that wasn’t a pretty sight. Jeiss looked around. He collected some invisible census, and then briskly shook his head.

“No worries on the job, Watch Captain. We’ve got your tail. You’re the boss, not Wing Commander Embria or the army.”

She exhaled softly, trying not to show her relief. It meant a lot.

“If that’s all, we’ve got a job to do. Anything else?”

She looked around. No one else wanted to speak, but Jeiss held up one claw.

“If—if there were a better option, Watch Captain, would you take it?”

Zevara paused. She looked quizzically back at Jeiss.

“Such as?”

“Just a hypothetical question, Watch Captain. I’m just saying. Will you keep an open mind?”

He met her eyes. Zevara nodded slowly.

“An open mind. If you’ve got any better ideas, I’ll listen.”

She waited. Everyone looked around, but no one spoke up. Jeiss shrugged, grinning tiredly.

“Just asking.”



——



“Turns out Lism can be shut up. You just need to get him mad enough to choke on his own spit.”

That night, Selys raised a glass and toasted Krshia and Zevara. The Gnoll was grinning, and her voice, after a small gulp of a specialty healing tonic for the throat, was back to normal.

“We got a message throughout the city. And Lism, that windbag, couldn’t stop me, even with two squads of the army marching.”

“And the Council is being hounded to act. They meet tomorrow morning by popular demand. If they don’t vote for an election, they’ll have to answer to a crowd. I suppose I should put some of the Watch on the scene just in case.”

Zevara drank from her cup, smiling faintly. Selys leaned back at the table, grinning hugely. She felt powerful. Or maybe motivated was the word. It felt like everything was coming together, and relaxing at Erin’s inn after a hard day was excellent. As was the lemonade drink. And on cue, Erin came over with a pitcher for a refill herself, and tonight’s dinner.

“Congratulations! Krshia! Selys! Uh, Zevara! This is amazing!”

She set down three large, steaming plates of spaghetti and meatballs, a classic. Selys immediately reached for a fork and slurped up some noodles. Krshia picked up a meatball with her paws, popped it into her mouth, and chewed with her eyes closed. Zevara eyed Erin.

“Uh, thank you, Miss Solstice. This is good…lemonade, was it? I’ve had something like this. Not nearly as sweet, though.”

“You know us Humans! We love sugar.”

Erin smiled at the table. She put the pitcher down.

“I also have another drink for you to try. On the house! I’m supporting this election. Although, I can’t vote. But I really want you to win, Krshia! And the other Gnolls too. Mrsha was really happy Elirr was running!”

She came back with a clear glass with a brown liquid at the bottom and a blue one balanced on top. Selys eyed it with great interest, as did Zevara. Krshia was eating meatballs.

“What’s that?”

“Blue fruit juice mixed with rum. Try it. I’m going to show it to my friend in Pallass, Rufelt, later. Thoughts?”

“Nice presentation.”

Zevara took the glass, swirled it until the liquids mixed, and took a sip. Her brows shot up.

“Not bad. But it’s so sweet.”

“Some people like sweet. Like me. Erin, can I have one?”

“Of course. Krshia?”

“I could use a drink. Especially after dealing with Lism.”

The Gnoll stretched out. Erin nodded, smiling, and went for the bar. Selys reached for her fork, sipping from both sweet drinks. Zevara requested an ale. Selys bit into her spaghetti and noticed a paw sneaking up to one of her meatballs on the side.

“Mrsha!”

The little Gnoll jumped, hit her head on the table, and raced away. Zevara jolted—Krshia just rolled her eyes. Her meatballs were safely in her stomach. Selys laughed and tempted Mrsha back with a meatball.

“What are you, a dog?”

“Gnoll cubs are sometimes indistinguishable from them. And often less well house-trained.”

Krshia muttered. Mrsha shot her a frown, stood up on both legs, and delicately bit off half of Selys’ meatball. She folded her arms, as if to say, ‘there! See?’ Krshia just blew air into Mrsha’s face teasingly.

“Don’t feed Mrsha more than that, Selys! She’s begged enough snacks already. I’m telling everyone to stop; she’s putting on weight! And for once, she doesn’t need it!”

Lyonette passed Selys’ table by, carrying a bowl filled with black flies to a table with some of the Painted Soldiers, still being rotated in from the Hive. It was night, but they were still eagerly coming in and watching the Players of Celum, who had rotated through their three acting teams throughout the day.

“You’re not fat, are you, Mrsha?”

Selys teased Mrsha. The Gnoll indignantly patted her stomach, glaring at Lyonette. She flashed her paws in a signal Selys didn’t understand, but Lyonette clearly did. The [Barmaid] frowned thunderously as she handed a Soldier a bowl.

“Say that again, young miss, and you can kiss your own dessert goodbye. In fact, I don’t think a rude young lady deserves any. Do you?”

Mrsha’s face fell. She raced around Selys, hugging the Drake. Selys flicked her tail at Mrsha.

“I’m not protecting you from Lyonette. If you were rude, you were rude.”

The little Gnoll looked at Selys, betrayed, and then slunk to another table to Selys’ left. She poked her head up and surprised a half-Elf sitting there. Ceria rubbed Mrsha’s head.

“Mrsha! What are you doing now? Hiding from mean Lyonette? Sorry. My [Ice Walls] can’t stop her. Go say sorry.”

She ushered Mrsha out from the table. The Gnoll plucked at the woman sitting next to Ceria. Yvlon looked down and read something.

“A mistake? I don’t think so. Own up, Mrsha. Honesty is important.”

Selys wished she’d been at the inn longer to pick up on Mrsha’s new sign language. Guiltily, she looked over at the Horn’s table. Mrsha slunk back to Lyonette, ears down, and Selys cleared her throat.

“How’s it looking from your end? Think this election thing’s a good idea?”

They turned. Ksmvr, Ceria, Yvlon, Pisces—and Olesm. Both Pisces and Olesm had returned from Pallass yesterday, but this was their first full day experiencing the new climate. Ceria shrugged as she bit into her own spaghetti.

“I’m for it. Then again, I’ve never lived anywhere for long as a citizen. Adventurer’s Guilds let teams do their own thing. And Wistram was…well, confusing. This is nice and straightforward. Hope you win.”

Yvlon nodded.

“No disagreements there. And it seems like you three have the popular opinion on your side. What do you think, Pisces, Ksmvr?”

The two looked up from their plates. Both seemed intent on winning the award for most spaghetti consumed. Ksmvr opened his sauce-covered mandibles.

“I am no longer a member of Liscor in any sense of the word since I was expelled from the Hive. Therefore all my thoughts about Liscor’s election are voided.”

“…Fair enough. Pisces?”

The [Necromancer] looked up with a smirk.

“Ah, naturally the one expert on Drake politics and culture is addressed last, as usual.”

Ceria sighed. Selys rolled her eyes.

“Big talk for a Human with more sauce than lips.”

Pisces’ hand went up and touched his spaghetti-sauce covered lips. He blushed, scrubbed at his face with one arm of his robe, and cleared his throat. Yvlon gave Selys a thumbs-up, which Pisces ignored. He sat back, steepling his fingers together.

“I, for one, quite enjoyed the spirited debate. I may have added in a few salient points of my own.”

“Hence you nearly getting into a fight three times?”

Ceria eyed Pisces over the rim of her cup. The [Necromancer] sniffed and adjusted his pristine white robes.

“Trifles. A good debater always has an exit strategy prepared in case simpletons unable to mount a coherent defense take objection. Isn’t that so, Olesm?”

He looked at his companion. The Drake [Strategist] didn’t immediately reply. Olesm looked up from his mostly untouched plate of spaghetti.

“I can’t believe all this happened when I was gone. Is this really happening? An election? And—you’re all going for it? Krshia? Selys? Zevara?”

He looked at them from his table. Selys frowned and Krshia and Zevara looked up at Olesm’s tone.

“Yeah. Why? Isn’t it a great idea?”

“I—I suppose so? I mean, I’m for elections. In theory. I guess. I’m not against it. But this deal with the Antinium—and expanding the walls? Can we secure them by next spring against the flood waters? And what about getting them enchanted? If they aren’t, we’re potentially giving someone a foothold into the city.”

He looked at Zevara. The Watch Captain frowned and put down a napkin.

“I think we can do it. There’s a Wistram [Mage] scheduled to check our walls soon for the annual inspection anyways. And if not this, then what? What are your objections, Olesm?”

“The Antinium’s deal, for one. Politically, if we allow Antinium from foreign Hives into the city—no, it’s the expanding Hive that bothers me. And allowing more Soldiers aboveground. Why didn’t anyone consult with me first? I am Liscor’s [Strategist]!”

The blue-scaled Drake looked upset. Guiltily, Selys sipped from her drink and shrugged. She didn’t really get his objection. Erin came back with more meatballs for Ceria and Krshia.

“Mrsha said sorry! So don’t let her beg more meatballs, anyone. What’s this about more Antinium being a bad idea?”

Olesm avoided Erin’s gaze. He mumbled as he forked up more spaghetti.

“Well, I meant the Hive in regards to the Free Queen, not the Painted Soldiers…er, I’m just saying, it’s a deal worth looking twice at.”

Pisces frowned, resting the point of his chin on his steepled fingers. Yvlon raised an eyebrow, but Ceria just sighed.

“You sound just like that Lism guy, Olesm.”

“So?”

He hunched his shoulders defensively. Selys remembered he and Ceria had been a thing briefly. Or had they? The half-Elf chewed, swallowed, and burped.

“Sorry. Well, that Drake’s clearly against non-Drakes. He’s anti-Human and frankly, I don’t see why anyone supports him. I’m only half-Human, and I was offended listening to him rant about Humans and filthy Antinium and conniving Gnolls.”

The rest of the table nodded. Krshia nodded, and Selys looked at her sympathetically. She called to Ceria.

“That’s Lism. Well-known Drake [Shopkeeper] on Market Street. Krshia has to deal with him all the time.”

“Oh? My condolences.”

Ceria raised her mug. Krshia nodded. Olesm protested weakly.

“Hey now—”

He was cut off by Erin, who leaned over the Horns’ table, dishing out more meatballs for Ksmvr—none for Pisces. The [Necromancer] obligingly stole them off Ksmvr’s plate instead.

“You’re talking about Lism? Let me tell you, that guy. Whatta jerk. He’s been mean ever since I came to Liscor. Someone should hit him with a wet fish or something. I really hope he gets into the election—and Krshia kicks his butt!”

She raised a tong over her head. Ceria laughed. Olesm looked upset.

“Aw, come on, Erin. I know he can be—but he’s my uncle.”

“Oh yeah. I forgot. Sorry, Olesm.”

Erin blinked at the Drake unapologetically. Then she headed to Selys’ table and offered her pot of meatballs. Krshia took six.

“But come on. Even if he is family, isn’t he a bad guy? He tried to scam me the first time I met him! And he’s rude. And grouchy.”

“And his tail sucks.”

Selys added with a nod. Zevara’s lips quirked.

“Is it really that bad?”

“Ugly tail. Ugly personality. His has a crook in it—”

“Selys!”

Olesm cut Selys off from sketching the objectionable tail in question. He looked around, his shoulders hunched, his tail lashing the floor.

“I won’t deny he has his faults. But that’s not all he is. You don’t know him.”

“I know what I hear. And I see an angry Drake who’s attacked Ksmvr twice when he’s walked past him for no good reason. I’ve seen racists before, Olesm. That’s what he looks like to me.”

Yvlon calmly ate from her plate with a knife and fork. Olesm’s tail stopped for a moment.

“I know he doesn’t like Antinium. Or Humans. But he helped raise me. He can be kind. Stop it. Please.”

The Drake looked around, and both tables went quiet for a moment. Krshia sighed.

“Lism is…Lism. Market Street would not be the same without him, this is true. And he has his points, which is why he is free to run against me. I just intend to win.”

The others looked at her and smiled. Ceria grabbed a mug.

“I’ll drink to that! Good luck, Krshia! Win this thing and get on the Council! Upgrade the Adventurer’s Guild too, please? That’s what we want.”

The mood around both tables regained its cheerfulness. Pisces raised a mug.

“To a flawless victory. May you overwhelm your opponents on all fronts.”

“More like drown them in votes. Lism’s the only opposition to Krshia, and she’s got tons of support. We’re slated to get four seats at the moment—we could aim for eight, maybe!”

Selys tipped her mug up and drank her lemonade down. Krshia grinned. Erin laughed.

“Yeah! Beat that Lism jerk! Teach him a lesson for insulting Numbtongue.”

Zevara raised her eyebrows as she lifted her ale.

“I remember that. I heard someone tried to drow