 the Queen. And hadn’t Relc said Liscor was different? Klbkch….she swallowed a lump in her throat and changed the subject.

“Bad news. Got it. Didn’t I hear Liscor’s got an army? Relc…Relc said that. Is there lots of war?”

Selys rolled her eyes.

“There’s always some fight between the Drake cities. Or with a Gnoll tribe. We’re not Baleros, but—right. You don’t know Liscor has an army. They don’t come home often. They’re mercenaries, technically. Always being hired by one of the cities or alliances that pop up. And there are a lot of them.”

Selys began to furiously mark the lower half of the map with cities and circles.

“Okay, it gets a bit complex, but the big groups are the Walled Cities over here, the Gnoll Tribes of the plains, and the independent ports and cities in this area. Most of the inhabitants are Drakes, it’s true, but there are other species. For instance, nearly a third of the population down there are Gnolls. We have a few hundred Humans here and there…sometimes String-People or even Centaurs, Selphids, or other folk, but they’re just individuals rather than a community. Mostly in the Walled Cities.”

Some of the races Selys mentioned made no sense to Erin. What was a String Person? Or a Selphid? Or…

“What about Beastkin? I keep hearing that they live around here, but I’ve never seen one. Unless they look exactly like Gnolls. Where do they live?”

“Not really anywhere. I guess you might find more of them among the Gnoll Tribes—but they don’t belong there either. They come from another continent further to the west, Baleros, but they’re peaceful and easy to work with. We’ve got one total in all of Liscor. Hawk the Hare, our Courier.”

There was so much to ask about that Erin had to drop that fascinating line of questioning. She focused on species, first.

“Uh, are there other kinds of people like you? What about Lizardfolk?”

Selys scowled.

“No lizards. We wouldn’t tolerate their kind in cities anyways.”

Erin stared at the map. Selys finished marking it and smiled at Erin.

“Well, does that make sense?”

“Yeah, I think so. You explained it all well, but the map is making my eyes hurt.”

“Hey! What’s wrong with my map?”

Selys glanced down at the confusing jumble of squiggly lines and dots on the piece of paper.

“…Oh.”

Erin tried to keep a straight face, but couldn’t hold it in. She laughed, and after a moment, Selys laughed with her. That was a bit of happiness.

When they were done, Selys pointed to one of the dots near Liscor.

“Most of the new adventurers are coming from Pallass but it’s taking a while given how far they’re coming. I bet we’ll get a lot more and probably even some Human ones, but not for a few more days at least. Anyways, the reason all the adventurers are here is because of those new ruins. Didn’t you hear about them? Apparently, it’s some kind of underground complex—a huge one! They uncovered it a few days ago. Some [Shepherd] was walking with a herd and saw an opening in the hillside. It might be a dungeon.”

Erin remembered hearing about ruins, but it seemed like a distant memory.

“Oh yeah. That’s a big deal, isn’t it?”

Selys nodded seriously.

“It’s huge. We’re getting a huge amount of merchants, adventurers, and business because of it. But of course that means more trouble when they get into fights with the Antinium or break the law. I hear the Watch is working overtime, and now that Klbkch is—”

She cut herself off and tried to backpedal.

“Um, what I mean is that without—without enough guardsmen—”

“I get it.”

Erin patted Selys on the shoulder.

“So, there’s going to be a lot of adventurers? I might finally get some business in my inn.”

“Only if you can protect it. Like I was saying, Erin—”

“I need protection. Got it.”

Erin sighed.

“It’s so weird. I guess I just got used to the inn and the local area, y’know? I haven’t seen any monsters, so I just can’t get worried.”

“Well, you are in a place that used to have quite a few villages.”

Selys conceded as she marked a few X’s around Liscor.

“They all got abandoned or destroyed over time, especially after the Necromancer.”

“Pisces?”

The Drake looked incredulous.

“Who? No, not that Human. The Necromancer. From Terandria? The end of Silvaria? Az’kerash? Come on, Erin. Practically every Human north of us knows about him. He was from a while back and—well, we lost a lot of the area around Liscor. He destroyed entire Terandrian nations, but here, at Liscor, he met his end. The Antinium and Zel Shivertail brought him down, and that’s how the Free Hive was allowed into the city.”

She looked so proud about that, possibly because this Zel guy had Selys’ last name. The Drake went on, and her smile faded.

“A lot of people died in his undead attacks and the Second Antinium War, hence all the abandoned places. The place you’re in is pretty safe. But if you go a few miles in any direction, you can find a lot of strange stuff.”

Erin was intrigued. She studied the second map Selys was drawing.

“Really? I guess I’ve never…huh. You know, I’ve never really gone exploring. I mean, aside from finding the inn and a few other spots, I didn’t really go anywhere else. I started repairing the inn and…yeah, I didn’t ever really go any further.”

Selys shook her head.

“Good thing you didn’t. Some of those places are pretty dangerous. I mean, not now, obviously, since it’s not the right season and the Watch was keeping them clear, but I’ve heard stories.”

“Like what?”

“Oh, you know the adventurers. They always talk about treasure and finding magical artifacts in caves and so on. But the ones around here are always poor, so I wouldn’t pay attention if I were you. Most slither on back to the city before they get much further than your inn, anyways. They’re all low-level, which is why none of them have dared enter the ruins yet. They’re waiting for the stronger adventurers to clear the way before they flood in.”

“So what you’re saying is that there’s a lot of unexplored land out there?”

“If you stray from the roads, I guess. But who’d risk exploring out there?”

Selys paused, realized what she’d said, and stared suspiciously at her friend. Erin kept a perfectly straight face.

“Erin…”

“What?”

“No! It’s too dangerous! Don’t be stupid!”

“I just want to see what’s around the inn. I won’t go far. And I’ll run away if I see anything.”

“No. I won’t let you go alone.”

“Oh come on. I’ll be careful. I’ll only walk a few miles in every direction, okay? But I really don’t know what’s around the inn. I just want to explore a little.”

“Erin—”

“I’ll be fine, I promise, Selys. What’s the worst that could happen?”

Knock. Knock. Erin rapped her knuckles against the table.

“You’re going to get yourself hurt! Or killed!”

“There’s nothing out there that can hur—catch me.”

Knock. Knock.

“We were just talking about you needing someone to protect you! Without Relc and Klbkch—Erin, remember the Goblins? And there are far worse things out there! Believe me, I work with adventurers. I know.”

“Nothing’s going to bother going after a lone Human in an inn in the middle of nowhere, I’m sure.”

Knock. Knock.

“Why do you keep on doing that?”





1.35 R


Once, she’d broken her arm. When it had happened, Ryoka hadn’t even felt the pain—it was just the shock of it that hurt. Only when she’d dragged herself from underneath the motorcycle and waited for the ambulance did she feel the pain.

It hurt. But oddly, the worst part hadn’t been the pain.

Now, if her broken bones had actually pierced her skin at that time, her arm would have hurt far more than it did. But back then, Ryoka had been more overwhelmed by the dizzy nausea of it all and the feeling of wrongness in her arm. That had been the real trial as she waited for help.

She remembered that moment now. The memory floated up in her hazy mind like a bubble of the past. It was important to remember. She didn’t do it often enough.

Ryoka leaned on the table with the arm she’d once broken—her left. It was a pain in the ass to break your dominant hand. What was she thinking about? Oh yeah.

Memory.

Maybe if she’d remembered, she wouldn’t have made the same mistakes. But she repeated the same errors again and again. Pissing off everyone around her until they dragged her down into the mud. The same thing again and again. The symptom of madness—except that it wasn’t. That was one of the things idiots thought was true but was actually a lie.

Ryoka looked around. At this time of night, the common room of the inn was deserted. The innkeeper was in his bed, and the barmaids were all gone. But he’d left a candle on for her. Not that he would have done it if she’d asked, but a Minotaur’s polite request was quite another thing.

She rested her head against the table. She felt hot. And tired. But mainly hot, in the bad, stifling air sort of way. Not the hot that made uppity Minotaurs try to invite themselves into her room sort of way.

It was night. It might have been dark and stormy, but Ryoka was sitting inside the inn, so she couldn’t tell. She wasn’t doing anything right now. Just sitting and…waiting.

What was she doing? Everything felt like it was slowly being consumed by pain and that sweltering heat—worse than fire because it was feverish, like swampy, marsh heat. Sickness.

She was sure her leg was now infected, and Ryoka didn’t want to think of how bad it might get.

Stupid. Just tell Magnolia she needed help. Do it now.

This was stupid. Why was she not taking the easy, logical, practical way out? Trust a [Lady]’s resources to heal her. Not this gamble.

Necromancy didn’t sound hygienic. But she was doing it. Doing it because—she didn’t trust Magnolia? Because she was that committed to raising a middle finger to someone?

Yes. No.

Because she had principles? Because, because—

She hated being bullied into doing something. Because she’d rather risk her leg on this wild idea than—

Idiot. She had no one but herself to blame if this went wrong.

Memory. Pain. Broken bones. Ryoka felt time slipping around her. First she was waiting and then—a half-Elf was talking to her.

“Ryoka? Time to go.”

Why was she talking so quietly? Oh. It was night. Ryoka pushed her chair back. With Ceria’s arm around her, she stood up. She had to be helped to the door. Humiliation. Or was it practicality?

They helped lift her into the carriage. Another bit of shame, but there were no steps up. And they’d placed hay to cushion her leg. The other adventurers nodded to each other as Ryoka lay against a pillow of straw.

Credit where credit was due. For all the Horns of Hammerad bickered and their leader was a perverted cow-man, they moved fast. Within the hour of Ceria receiving her reply from the mysterious necromancer she knew, they’d hired a carriage and horses and plotted a route to their destination.

It was a city far to the south by the name of Liscor. Ryoka didn’t know anything about it. Apparently, there weren’t any Humans there, just Drakes and Gnolls, whatever they were. She’d let them do it. In fact, Ryoka’s only actions since Magnolia had left were to agree to Ceria’s idea and then to sleep.

No—not sleep. Even as the carriage started with a jolt that banged Ryoka’s leg, she knew it hadn’t been sleep. The painful haze of dozing and waking couldn’t be called that. But now she was tired, mortally so.

The thing about broken bones? Ryoka blinked as the carriage rumbled down the cobblestone street. She was trying to remember. What was it? Back then, it hadn’t been the pain that was uncomfortable.

Yes, it was the other things. The pressure, the wrongness, the dizziness and nausea. All the things she felt now. Her leg felt hot underneath its wrappings. Ryoka’s mind was clouded. But the pain was gone.

Ryoka stared at the soaked bandages she could barely make out in the moonlit night. If she took the bandages off, she wouldn’t be able to think or move. Then the real pain would come back, and her leg would dangle like a dead fish. She was still tempted, though. Just to do it to see her leg bend obscenely as it flapped about on her dead skin. Flop goes the piece of flesh and shattered bone. Flop, flop. Floppy the Leg-fish.

She was aware that she wasn’t…wasn’t thinking too straight. Sleep deprivation from the pain just made everything harder. But now the pain was gone. Gone, and far away.

Magic.

She could hear the other adventurers talking around her. Four of the Horns of Hammerad sat in the cart—or was it a wagon? It was big enough for five with room left over, so a wagon, then.

“Is she okay?”

That was Gerry—Gerial. The vice-captain. He liked her, she could tell. Ryoka didn’t like him back.

Ceria glanced at Ryoka. The mage was sitting next to her in the wagon. Her eyes glowed in the light shining from the tip of the mage’s staff.

“She should be fine. I think.”

“She seems—odd. What spell did you cast?”

Calruz. Ryoka didn’t like him either. Not like that.

“It wasn’t me. Peminac cast [Numb], I think. It takes away pain, but it makes the affected slightly…odd. She should be fine, and it’s better than her feeling the pain. We just need to make sure to keep healing the leg every few hours.”

“You still haven’t told us how your mysterious [Necromancer] friend will help heal the leg, Ceria.”

One of the adventurers whose name Ryoka didn’t remember turned in the wagon. He wasn’t one of the mages. He gripped the mace at his side.

“You mean the Necromancer? I thought we were just visiting another [Mage]! I thought he was dead!”

The armored warrior looked horrified. He shook his head vigorously.

“If that’s the case, count me out. I’m sorry, but not even a debt of honor would make me face that monster.”

Calruz rumbled. He was striding along next to the wagon. Even as they picked up speed as they left the city gates and rumbled down the road he didn’t seem to notice the quick pace.

“In that case, get out. And consider yourself banned from the Horns of Hammerad while you’re at it.”

“Calruz—”

Gerial intervened. He patted the warrior on the shoulder.

“It’s not the Necromancer we’re going to meet. Just an ordinary [Necromancer], so don’t worry. Az’kerash is dead. Everyone knows that.”

The name alone was enough to scare some of the others, though. Calruz had no sympathy for it.

“We don’t need cowards! Jump off and run back into the city!”

“Running from the Necromancer isn’t cowardice, idiot. Calm down. Hunt, get back here.”

Ceria called down from the wagon as she stabbed her staff at the Minotaur’s head for emphasis. He grunted, and Ceria added.

“You weren’t on the continent when the Necromancer attacked with his legions ten years back. Or a Terandrian. Hunt is. I grew up with stories of him attacking kingdoms and killing people by the thousand. And that was when I was a girl. Believe me—even if we were all thirty levels higher, we’d still be no match for him. So stop questioning the courage of your own party!”

Calruz glared, but he eventually relented. Ryoka could hear him rumbling what sounded like insults as he kept pace with the horses.

Her eyes were closed because that made the world spin less. But Ryoka had to ask.

“So this Necromancer is still alive?”

A pause. Did they think she’d been asleep? But then Gerial replied.

“In the past, they never found his body and he’d pop up. But the Tidebreaker, Zel Shivertail, beheaded him and they burned him. Still, some people remember him, and everyone hates [Necromancers]. They’re not outlawed everywhere—but close enough.”

Which made it odder that Ceria knew one, and the rest of her team was giving her the side-eye. She cleared her throat.

“In any case, the [Mage] we’re going to visit is not the Necromancer. He just…practices necromancy. And he’s the only person who can help Ryoka I could think of.”

“Ah.”

Someone shifted on the wagon. Ryoka heard the scraping of metal on wood. She peeked open an eye and saw the half-Elf looking at the other female mage on the wagon.

“I still don’t like it. Ceria, how do you know someone like that?”

She shrugged.

“We studied together in Wistram Academy. I was a friend of his…once. We parted ways badly several years ago, but I knew he was probably in the area. Besides, Pisces isn’t very dangerous. Annoying, yes, but not dangerous. He’s…thoughtless, secretive, selfish, and he’s made terrible mistakes. But he’s no monster. And I hate to admit it but—he is very smart.”

Gerial leaned forwards.

“You told him what you want him to do?”

The half-Elf blew out her cheeks.

“I gave him the barest details. The messaging spell I used didn’t give me time for more, but he agreed. We’re not on good terms, like I said. He’ll meet us at an inn a few miles east of Liscor. Don’t worry; he’s competent. But I suspect he’ll want money, and lots of it.”

“We can cover the cost.”

Calruz interjected before Ryoka could speak. Which was good, because she was completely broke at the moment. Even the healing potions and carriage had been paid for by the Horns of Hammerad.

“Why’s he out there?”

“He’s in hiding.”

“Why does he practice necromancy?”

A pause. Ryoka’s eyelids felt heavy. Then Ceria spoke.

“I suspect because he likes dead people more than he likes the living most of the time.”

“I get that.”

Everyone turned to Ryoka, but the young woman was half-asleep already. Ryoka let her head fall back against the bouncing carriage. She meant to ask more questions, but she was so hot. And tired. The parts of her shattered leg that she could feel felt like they were throbbing. But the pain was gone, thanks to the magic.

In this moment, that was enough to make the bumping, rattling wagon smelling of hay into heaven. Ryoka sank back into the hay.

She closed her eyes and slept.



——



Riding on a carriage pulled by a horse is not fun with a shattered leg. Even with healing potions and anti-pain spells. But compared to sleeping in an inn sans anti-pain spells and with limited healing potions, it’s bliss.

I slept for two days, apparently. Well, I woke up and ate and talked, but they told me I had a fever. By the time it broke and I started to remember things, two days had passed. It’s midday, and apparently, we’re two-thirds of the way towards our destination*.



*Which, considering how far Liscor is away from the Human lands, is pretty damn impressive. The Horns of Hammerad must have set a blistering pace to get this far so quickly.



Some [Driver] is rolling the wagon forwards and grumbling nonstop about his ponies, but he’s fast. Skills, apparently, let him carry us faster than most vehicles or even horses—if not cars.

I missed the details of what happened while I slept. But apparently, the Horns of Hammerad made a few stops at another city. Firstly, to let the rest of their injured party members know what they were doing, and secondly, to swap out horses. Then they continued their journey into the night, half of them sleeping in the wagon and then swapping out with the others in the morning.

They even took care of my leg. The bandages weren’t changed, of course, but they’d used another healing potion so my leg didn’t look as puffy and horribly red. Just…puffy and red at the moment.

“How are you feeling?”

Ceria leans forward over the hay when she notices I’m awake. She hands me a roll of sweet, crumbling bread spread with jam and butter. It tastes delicious.

“Good. Thanks for everything.”

My voice wakes up one of the guys sleeping in the wagon. Gerial blinks up at me and gives me a charming smile. I guess it’s charming. Someone else would probably think it was, at any rate.

“We’re happy to repay our debts, Ryoka. And it hasn’t been that much of a chore so far.”

Says the guy sleeping in hay on a bumpity wagon after two days of roughing it. Well, maybe that is normal by this world’s standards.

“I’ll remember this.”

Crap. That sounded like a threat. And…now he’s looking confused. Great. Change the subject, fast.

“—So. About this mage.”

Ceria nods. She fiddles with her staff. It’s not glowing anymore. I guess it takes mana to keep it lit*.



*Mana. Magical energy. This world already sounds like a classic videogame, and they use terms right out of most games I know. Still, the idea that we all have our own internal reservoir of magic is cool.



“Pisces. I told you that he’s a [Necromancer]. In truth, he’s probably not that strong of one—I remember that he was about Level 22 when we were students together in Wistram Academy. Even if he’s leveled up a bit, he shouldn’t be a threat if you’re worried.”

I hear a snort. Huh. Calruz is still keeping pace with the wagon. Did he…run throughout the night? Even I’m not that kind of crazy.

“I fear no [Mage], especially not a weak one who practices cowardly magic like necromancy.”

Gerial shook his head.

“He’s still the same level as most of our group. That’s not bad. But why did you say he was hiding out, Ceria?”

She scratches her head and glances over the side of the wagon. Not directly away from Gerial, but I know evasion when I see it.

“…He was kicked out of Wistram Academy. And he’s wanted by several cities for causing trouble, I gather. Not murder—just extortion and troublemaking.”

Time for more information gathering.

“Let me guess. He was kicked out because they found he was practicing necromancy, right?

Ceria hesitates, and her eyes cloud over. Her team’s listening, but the half-Elf just murmurs vaguely.

“Oh, no. It wasn’t just that. No, it was because of what he did with necromancy that he was expelled.”

Again, the awkward silence. I hate this kind of conversation, but someone’s got to ask the obvious question. Thankfully, it’s Gerial not me that gets to ask.

“What did he do?”

Ceria tightens her lips.

“…He got a lot of people killed. By accident. I think it was an accident, but a good friend of mine died. That wasn’t the only…only reason. But it’s past now. Six years past. I called in what few favors I think I had left to get him to meet us.”

The rest of the Horns glance at each other. I lick my lips and accept a flask of water. Some kind of past drama? Curious. I guess. I’m not too interested in this mystery [Necromancer]’s past right now, except whether or not he’s competent.

“Is he competent?”

Ceria nods, relieved to be changing the subject—I could see Calruz opening his mouth.

“Oh yes. He’s got the levels to do what we need, and he’s smart. You could even call him a genius in a limited sense.”

“How so?”

Ceria scowls and adjusts the blankets she’s wrapped around herself.

“Well, he’s only a brat—I mean, he’s only around twenty in your years, which I suppose makes him an adult. But he’s got levels in multiple magical classes. If you add them all up, he’s got more than I do, and I’m three times his age.”

Don’t they say never mention a woman’s age in public? But I guess half-Elves don’t care about that sort of thing.

“So this operation. What—”

I stop and cover a yawn. Really? I just slept.

“What—”

I’m still yawning? What’s wrong with me?

“Tired?”

I want to smack the grin right off of Gerial’s face.

“…Guess I’m tired.”

Ceria nods.

“The [Numb] spell and all the healing you’re doing is probably taking its toll. If you need to sleep—sleep. We won’t get to Liscor for several more hours, and we still need to water and feed the ponies.”

“Worthless nags.”

“I heard that, sir!”

The [Driver] turns in his seat, and I see an old man—and the ponies—glare at the Minotaur. Which is funny. He snaps back.

“If you want to go faster, get off and pull yourself. Or I’ll thank you to not insult my ponies.”

“Calruz, shut up. This is the only [Driver] we could get who can take us there fast.”

“Yeah, shut up, with respect, Captain.”

Gerial and Ceria berate Calruz, and I hear him rumble an apology at the touchy [Driver]. It’s a shame. I like anyone who has an attitude like that…so long as it’s not directed at me…

Something about hypocrisy?

…Crap. I’m already slipping back into sleep. Why? I guess…just that tired?

I hear the last fragment of a reply as I drift off.

“—I personally believe he’s delusional and that he’ll never achieve his goals. But regardless, he won’t stay in the area long. Every time the Academy learns where he’s staying, they send out a team to capture him. So far, he’s escaped, but it’s only a matter of time before he stays in one place too long and gets caught.”

And then—and then—

I go back to sleep.



——



When Ryoka woke up the second time, she looked around and knew that she was in a different place. The grasslands still stretched around her, but the grass was longer here, and to each side, she saw towering mountains enclosing the area.

She was in a valley. A pass between the mountain ranges that she normally saw as distant shapes in the distance. And the dirt road the wagon had been travelling on was now stone. The increased rumbling and jolting as the wagon struck uneven stones was probably what woke her up. Also, something really stank, and it was hard to sleep through.

“Evening.”

This time, Ceria handed Ryoka a piece of bread with some sliced cheese and meat. Again, Ryoka devoured the meal quickly before she spoke.

“How was the trip?”

One of the other mages enjoying his lunch looked up and replied.

“Uneventful. We scared away a few Razorbeaks that wanted to take a bite out of your leg, but we haven’t seen any other monsters.”

Ryoka blinked stupidly. Her head still felt stuffed.

“Razorbeaks?”

“Large, green birds. Leathery. Got teeth sharp as a knife, but they’re not too dangerous. A few sparks scare them away.”

“Not a challenge.”

Ryoka looked over and realized what the smell was. Calruz sat at the far end of the wagon—downwind of the other adventurers. He was sweating heavily. To put it politely, he reeked. The smell reminded Ryoka of a workout gym right in the middle of rush hour crossed with a barn right in the middle of a different kind of rush hour.

“We near Liscor?”

“A few miles away. But we should see the inn Pisces mentioned any minute now. You have good timing.”

Ryoka shrugged. She kept looking around. The plains really were quite empty. She supposed sleeping through most of the journey had a lot to do with that, but really, the landscape she could see had very few variations in it. Just a few trees over…there and some weird rocks scattered all over in other directions. And over there—

“Goblins.”

Ryoka said it at the same time as Ceria. The other adventurers sat up and squinted to see as they reached for their weapons. Calruz took one look and sat back against the wagon.

“Bah.”

Gerial squinted as the warrior by his side pulled out a longbow from the supplies in the carriage and began to string it.

“Goblins. Looks like a fight within their own tribe.”

Ryoka could see two groups of Goblins slashing and clubbing each other in the distance. It was hard to tell, but it looked like one side was being led by a small Goblin while the other was leaderless. Still, the numbers favored the leaderless side.

“Hm. Looks like one of those Goblins has some experience fighting. See—they’re using formations and fighting together.”

Calruz didn’t even look up as he stretched out.

“Rabble. Not worth dirtying a blade over. Not a single Hob in sight.”

One of the other adventurers gritted their teeth.

“You wouldn’t say that if you ever saw a raiding party—or a warband. Besides, the Guild offers a copper piece for every four pairs of Goblin ears.”

The bow-wielding warrior drew an arrow and sighted down the shaft.

“I can probably hit the runt if you slow the carriage down. Might stop a new chieftain being selected for a few more days. Want me to make the shot?”

Calruz waved a hand indifferently, clearly uncaring. The warrior glanced at Gerial. And Gerial glanced at Ryoka. He hesitated and then shook his head.

“This isn’t our area, and besides, it’s a tiny tribe. Let the local adventurers deal with it if it becomes an issue. Let’s go find that [Necromancer].”

“He should be waiting at the inn. Anyone see it?”

The other adventurers looked around as the warrior unstrung his bow, grumbling about a missed opportunity. Ryoka looked around too, but the landscape was full of hidden hills and dips that made seeing in a straight line hard.

It was half an hour before one of the mages pointed.

“There’s the inn. We’re here.”

Ryoka’s head shot up. She saw in the distance a rising hill, broad enough to almost be called a plateau, and on it—

An inn.

It was quite ordinary. Ryoka glanced at its weathered façade and immediately paid no attention more to it. Because standing on top of the gently sloping hill and staring down towards the party of adventurers was a [Mage].

He was clearly a [Mage]. He looked pasty-skinned and like he was more used to wielding books than a sword. His robes were white—well, as the wagon approached, they became more colorful, but he was wearing robes.

The wagon rumbled to a stop as the sweating horses finally finished their long journey. The adventurers slowly and silently slid out of the wagon. Ryoka tried to get up, but Calruz simply picked her up in his arms and hopped off the wagon before placing her on her feet. She glared at him but then focused on the [Mage].

Pisces. He looked quite harmless as the Horns of Hammerad spread out in front of him. But Ryoka noticed that while none of the adventurers had drawn their swords, they weren’t relaxing in front of him. And they were in formation—two of the [Mages] in the back while the warrior with the mace stood in front of them. Calruz and Gerial flanked Ceria as she stepped forwards.

The half-Elf walked forwards until she and Pisces were a few feet apart. They appraised each other. One, a part-immortal with beauty that bordered on the supernatural, wearing robes woven with magic and finest cloth. The other, a [Mage] in dirty robes standing in front of a run-down inn.

Ceria inclined her head slightly. Pisces nodded.

“Pisces.”

“Ceria.”

“It’s been a while, hasn’t it?”

“Quite. Spoken to Mons? Beatrice, perchance?”

He gave her a wary look, and Ceria’s wary look turned into a flash of anger.

“You know I haven’t. This isn’t a trap. I haven’t heard a word for—”

He raised his palms.

“I am simply asking.”

“Well—no. This is a mission of mercy. Thanks—thanks for meeting us.”

His face twisted into a sneer, and he seemed about to say something, but then he glanced at Ceria’s team and at Ryoka. Both fell silent as Ryoka balanced on one leg. She looked from one face to the other. Clearly, there was little love lost between the two, but they weren’t enemies. It was another one of the awkward social moments she hated.

Ceria broke the silence. She nodded towards the inn.

“Is there anyone in there? Can we buy supplies and rest or do we have to go into the city?”

He shrugged.

“Not at the moment. The owner is currently elsewhere, it seems.”

“They let you stay at the inn? Nevermind, it doesn’t matter. Well then, I guess this is as good a place as any.”

“I suppose so.”

More silence. Ceria tightened her grip on her staff.

“You know what we want you to do?”

“Mend shattered bone? A simple task.”

Pisces shrugged casually. This seemed to infuriate Gerial. The vice-captain stepped forwards.

“We’ve travelled over a hundred miles to get here, mage. You’re supposed to be a [Necromancer] able to help us, but I haven’t heard how you’d be able to mend bone. [Necromancers] deal with the dead, so what makes you special? No [Healer] from Wales to Celum could help Ryoka!”

If looks could kill—Pisces’ icy stare would merely have wounded. He took his time replying and sniffed hard as he looked down his nose at Gerial.

“Necromancy is a misnomer for the true nature of my magic. Reanimation is but one component of raising the dead. Another, crucial aspect is the manipulation and fundamental understanding of—”

Ceria interrupted.

“Bones. He can control bones.”

Pisces sniffed.

“Thank you for the simplistic explanation. I suppose that does explain it, however. In any event, know that I am a [Necromancer] capable of your request. Kindly refrain from addressing me with pointless questions ever again. As for [Healers] being insufficient—it is not my fault that there’s so little talent to go around.”

He turned to Ceria, completely ignoring the outraged Gerial.

“And my fee? As requested?”

Ceria made a face.

“We’ll give you twenty gold coins. No more, no less.”

Her team muttered at the price. It must have been high—even for the [Healer] to do what they had to Ryoka’s leg, she’d paid less than five gold coins total, not including the valuable bandages and potions. But the Runner just let Ceria negotiate.

Pisces raised an eyebrow.

“For what you want? When, as your dear teammate points out, no [Healer] can help your patient? Sixty, no less.”

“Thirty. And even that is robbery. This is a Silver-rank team, Pisces. Not some Gold-rank.”

“Nevertheless. You can eminently afford…fifty.”

“Forty.”

“—Fine.”

Pisces nodded, looking a bit too eager. Ceria looked over at Calruz, who tilted his head imperceptibly.

“We’ve got a deal then.”

“Very well. And the injured party I’m to heal?”

This time, all the Horns glared at him. Ceria pointed at Ryoka’s bad leg. Pisces glanced over and sniffed.

“Of course.”

Ceria let out a sigh that spoke to Ryoka of long suffering. She gestured at the inn and grasslands.

“Where do you want to work?”

“There’s no need to move. Now that we’ve agreed, let’s begin.”

Pisces reached down and put a hand on Ryoka’s leg. She felt something begin to shift inside her leg and bit back a shout of surprise.

“Pisces!”

Ceria shouted, and the other Horns reached for their weapons. Calruz clenched his fist and loomed forwards ominously, but Pisces didn’t look around.

He was shifting his finger as he stared hard at Ryoka’s leg. Something was moving around in there. Ryoka could feel multiple points of contact as the skin on her leg rippled and twisted.

It didn’t hurt. But it felt more unpleasant than anything she’d ever experienced. For once, her body was not in her control, and Ryoka didn’t like it one bit.

But almost as soon as it had started, the feeling stopped. Pisces glanced up from her leg and narrowed his eyes at Ceria.

“I would appreciate no shouting during the process. You know how much concentration this takes even without interruption.”

The half-Elf stepped forwards and jabbed Pisces hard in the chest, making him wince.

“You idiot! At least have her lie down before you do that!”

Pisces shrugged insolently.

“The comfort of the patient is of no object to me. Regardless…I’m done. Where’s my payment?”

The other adventurers stared at him incredulously.

“Already?”

“Impossible!”

Gerial strode forwards and jabbed at Pisces angrily.

“You can’t have finished so quickly! You must be lying!”

Pisces stepped back rather than let Gerial get near him. He sneered at the older man.

“You may doubt all you wish, but I believe my fellow student can attest to my competence. Besides which, any spell would confirm the veracity of my statement. Tell them, Springwalker.”

Ceria nodded reluctantly. She bent down and felt at Ryoka’s leg, then shot a glance up. But she traced a long, continuous line down Ryoka’s leg and then stood up and whistled.

“It’s true. He’s restored the bone to normal. Dead gods—that’s incredible.”

The Horns of Hammerad exclaimed in surprise and shock. They immediately appraised Pisces again, all except for Ryoka. She was still staring down at her leg.

“Fine, then. Your money.”

Ceria looked at Calruz. The Minotaur grunted and fished in his belt pouch. He tossed Ceria a small sack of coins. She caught it and upended it over her palm. Gold coins poured out—far more than the bag should have contained.

Pisces waited until Ceria had counted the coins out. There were more than could fit in her hand, but as the coins poured out, Ceria’s hand shimmered with faint green light, and they began to float in the air.

The gold coins flew upwards and then resolved themselves into four perfect stacks of ten standing straight up in the half-Elf’s hand. She handed them to Pisces with a face as if she were plucking a tooth. He smiled as he poured the gold into a pouch at his side. Ceria whirled away, and the Horns of Hammerad retreated to confer around Ryoka’s leg.

“I have plans for this gold. Not least, it will help shut up a certain annoying [Innkeeper]—”

He stopped when he realized no one was listening to him. Pisces glared around, turned, and walked away.



——



“Sorry about that.”

Ceria apologized once Pisces had moved out of earshot. She sighed and rubbed at her brow.

“I’d forgotten how annoying Pisces gets, and I remembered quite a bit.”

Gerial was close to tearing out his hair. He snapped at Ceria while glaring at Pisces’ back.

“If it was that simple, why couldn’t you have done that? The entire spell barely took seconds!”

“Exactly.”

Calruz grunted. A large vein was throbbing in his head as he clenched his fists.

“That little runt of a Human was mocking us the entire time. We travelled all this way and paid all this coin for a spell that any one of you could have done? Explain yourself, Ceria!”

Both Captain and vice-captain of the Horns of Hammerad glared at their mage, but she was at least equal to them in projecting ire.

“I couldn’t have done that. And that was no spell—at least, not any spell written down. You think we overpaid? I think we underpaid, and I’m just glad Pisces didn’t catch on to what Gerial was saying.”

Calruz paused. His massive face wrinkled up.

“What do you mean?”

“Pisces was moving around each of the shattered bones and knitting them together. He could sense where they are, and he knows how to reassemble them. That isn’t something any normal [Mage] could do. Or even a regular [Necromancer].”

The other mage shivered.

“Ceria is right, Calruz. I wouldn’t know where to begin with an injury like that. But the speed and precision of that [Necromancer]…and you say he’s only Level 22?”

Ceria twirled her staff in her hands as she took her time responding.

“Pisces is a genius. He possesses an intimate knowledge of Human bodies. No one but another [Necromancer] could have done that so easily. And frankly, I would not trust any other [Necromancer] but Pisces. Listen, have you ever heard of someone mending shattered bone like that?”

The other adventurers fell silent. Calruz glanced at Gerial, and the vice-captain hesitated.

“You hear about the Healer of Tenbault, and Named-ranks have the highest-grade potions in the world. But…no. I know a lot of Silver and Bronze-ranks who take a bad break and it never heals.”

Calruz looked horrified—and angry. But his eyes were flickering.

“The House of Minos has a lot of experience with bone injuries, and our [Healers] are the best as I said. But—that was instantaneous. And the solution is a [Necromancer]? I should report this to home. If that really does mend bone that fast…”

“And it worked? This only matters if it works.”

Hunt interrupted nervously. The man was glancing at Ryoka for confirmation. Now, the adventurers stared at Ryoka’s leg. It seemed…unchanged, at least under the bandages. That was to say, the bandages were so red and dirty that none of the actual flesh could be spotted underneath. At least the leg didn’t appear swollen.

“The flesh is still probably broken, but the bone underneath should be repaired if Pisces is right. He doesn’t know healing spells, but he could easily reinforce and repair the bone.”

Ceria peered at Ryoka. The girl hadn’t moved the entire time—since Pisces had begun changing her leg, she’d been frozen, staring down at it.

“Ryoka? How do you feel?”

No response. It was as if Ryoka were lost to the world. Ceria frowned, worry crossing her expression.

“…Ryoka?”



——



“…Ryoka?”

Someone is calling my name. And I want to answer them, I really do. But something else is occupying my mind. If you put the second coming, Armageddon, an alien invasion, and Elvis Presley rising from the dead right in front of my face, I wouldn’t be able to look up.

Because I can feel it.

The magic on my leg is still there, but I can feel it. The flesh may be broken, but the bone is whole. My bones are whole.

I. Am. Whole.

“Ryoka? Are you okay? How do you feel?”

What kind of question is that? How do I feel? Am I okay? How could—how could words, mere words describe what I’m feeling at the moment.

It took just a moment, but the difference between the me of now and then is—is the difference of a lifetime. I am healed. I am me again.

“Ryoka?”

Ceria puts a hand on my shoulder. It brings me out of the moment, just for a second. And it’s annoying because this is a moment I wish could last forever. If I could capture this feeling—if I could remember it, I would never despair again. This is what it means to have hope fulfilled.

But she wants an answer. How do I feel? Am I okay? What a stupid question. But I have to respond with something. Something…something pithy, like ‘how do you think?’

I open my mouth, and something changes.

…What?

For once, there’s nothing angry in me, no heart full of rage and hurt. Instead—instead, as I open my mouth, I hesitate. The bitter, harsh words stop on my tongue and refuse to come out. And something inside of me asks: why? Why and when?

Why was I about to lash out at the person who saved me? Saved. Me. Why would I ever do such a thing, repay all her kindness with rudeness? Am I that kind of person?

When did I forget gratitude? Since when was my first response always anger? When did I forget what it meant to say ‘thank you?’

Who am I, and where did the girl who smiled go?

I don’t say anything. I swallow the bitter words unspoken. Instead, I turn to Ceria and look her in the eye. Her eyes are gold, the molten core of suns and burnished gold. The color of wheat fields in the fading sun, and caught in their depths is a glimpse of something deeper, something greater. A bit of eternity.

I bow my head, low. It’s been too long since I looked at my own two feet. I can feel the surprise of the people around them, but it’s only natural. It’s the least I can do. Should do.

“Thank you.”

Again, surprise. But I keep my head bowed. I can’t look them in the eyes just yet. The ground is blurry. So I repeat the same words.

“Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Thank you.”

Insufficient words. They’re not enough. How could words ever be enough?

The Japanese—the people that make up half of my heritage—they have a type of bow they use for apologies. It looks like prostration, and that’s what it translates to in English.

土下座. Dogeza. I once swore that I’d never do that for anyone. Not kings or queens or even God if he existed. But I’d do it now if I knew it wouldn’t make them feel so awkward. But I do it now, in my mind and soul. Thanking the people who gave me back what matters most to me.

My legs. My wings. My ability to fly. So I thank them in every way I can.

“It was nothing—”

I look up. Ceria is blushing. And on her face, it is truly cute rather than beautiful to see. I smile and turn. Calruz blinks down at me. Surprised? But I think I know how to thank him, and it is differently than Ceria.

“I am truly grateful. And I’m sorry for my rudeness earlier. I owe you a debt I can’t repay. But I know the Horns of Hammerad now, and I know what defines you.”

I stick out my hand towards him.

“Honor.”

Calruz pauses again. But then he seizes my hand and grips it tight. His eyes were deep and blue—I hadn’t guessed. We shake hands.

“Honor and duty above all. Without it, we are animals.”

I turn to Ceria and shake her hand next. And then Gerial’s. And the rest of the adventurers. How long? How long since I properly shook hands and acted like a decent person?

Firm grip, look them in the eye. Just like dad taught me. And they smile in return. They smile, and I feel it again.

Trust.

“My name is Ryoka Griffin. I am in your debt. Whatever I can do—if ever you need me, just ask.”

I stand straight and tall. Whole once more. And my mind continues where my voice stops.

Ryoka Griffin. Freshman in Columbia University, or—I would have been. I never got to set foot on campus. Accepted with a Track and Field scholarship, specializing in the 400-meter run. 3.89 GPA average, hobbies include hunting, sports shooting, and reading. Not decided on any particular major. A fan of Youtube videos and playing video games, but didn’t put that on the college application.

Ryoka Griffin, runner, unfriendly daughter who doesn’t like her dad, 4th Dan in Muay Thai although I like Parkour a lot more. Refused Mensa membership, kicked out of two high schools. Angry girl. Lost soul.

Loves songs she can run to, a huge fan of rock and an enemy of pop, techno, and opera. Favorite artists include Meatloaf, Imagine Dragons, Fun, Lady Gaga*, and…Five for Fighting.



*Not all pop songs are bad, okay?



Currently—

Grateful.





1.36


When they removed the bandage from Ryoka’s leg, the other adventurers flinched back. All except for Ceria and Calruz, that was.

Ryoka stared down into the bloody, ripped mess of skin and once again was profoundly grateful for the numbing magic they’d put on her leg. Gerial looked pale as he gathered up the bandages. They were soaked with blood and grime, but they were still valuable.

“The flesh—”

“It’s fine.”

Ceria reassured the others. She fished out a red potion and uncorked the bottle.

“That’s what happens when you move bone around. But now the leg can be healed properly since the bone is repaired. Let’s heal—”

“Hold it.”

Calruz caught her arm, and for a second, Ryoka wondered if this was revenge for getting punched. She wasn’t in too much pain compared to before.

She could actually tell her bone was intact, not, you know, shredding her flesh with every passing moment. But the distinction was crippling delirium compared to an open, shredded leg—

“Give me the potion. What’s the hold up? Come on—”

Ryoka hissed through gritted teeth, but Calruz was eying the bloody, messy wound. Surprisingly, not much pus or other nasty fluids; the [Healer] had cleaned it and put on what they claimed would stop an infection.

“We must clean the wound first. A healing potion can accelerate an infection—”

“Dead gods, he’s right.”

Ceria lowered her arm and cursed, and Gerial bit his lip.

“That would not be…a good outcome.”

Ryoka looked from face to face.

“Infection? What? Healing potions accelerate infections?”

“That’s one of the reasons why adventurers can’t heal everything. That and poison stops healing from working properly. Hey, Pisces—Pisces!”

The [Necromancer] turned from counting his gold coins a ways off.

“What?”

“Does this building have anyone in it? Can we get some hot water? Or just water? We could boil our canteen water I guess.”

“We have cooking supplies. Calruz has them in his bag of holding.”

“I could inquire within, but the owner is out.”

“Who runs an inn with just one person? Nevermind. Uh—thanks.”

The half-Elf was awkward with the [Necromancer]. He sniffed and glanced at Ryoka archly. Ceria’s past with him, whatever it was, made the two stiff and grudgingly respectful. At best.

“The Minotaur is correct, Springwalker. Clean the wound. Too bad you never took that alchemy class, eh?”

He smiled—and Ceria’s face froze up. Her eyes flashed.

“Go to Rhir, Pisces.”

His smile disappeared instantly. Ryoka thought he’d meant it as a joke or…whatever the case, the [Necromancer] reddened and stepped back. He whirled away as the Horns fell silent—then stopped.

“Vinegar. Or soap. Hot soap and water.”

“What?”

Calruz looked up, and Ryoka, biting her lip hard, glanced up. Pisces sneered at them.

“Wash the wound. I know soap is not what you put on a wound—it doesn’t matter if you’ll heal it. Wash any grit straight out. Do hurry, though. The longer the wound is exposed, the sooner it will fester.”

He was right. Ryoka’s own germ knowledge made her clench her teeth—and the Minotaur already had a kettle going over a magical flame that the [Mage] Sostrom was producing with his staff.

“We’ll have to dump it over the wound. Ryoka Griffin, do you need something to clench with your teeth?”

“Do it. I’ll be fine. This—this is payback, isn’t it?”

“I assure you, it’s merely practicality.”

They had the kettle boiling quickly with the magical fire. Gerial gave Ryoka an arm to grip, but she clenched one hand.

“I’ll be fine. Just pour it on—fast.”

“Don’t burn her leg off. Just get that slime—grab my arm, Ryoka.”

Geria was remonstrating with Calruz. The Runner refused to.

“I’m fine.”

“Sure?”

“Yes—argh! Fuck you! I’ll kill you! You motherf—”

Ryoka’s screaming made Pisces glance back, even as he walked off across the Floodplains hills. Ryoka doubled over as the adventurers held her still, and Calruz spoke.

“Ceria—now.”

Carefully, the half-Elf poured the healing potion over Ryoka’s leg. It was a stronger, more expensive potion, so the effects began instantly once the liquid hit her flesh.

The scalding agony faded, and Ryoka let go of Gerial’s shoulder. She watched with nauseous interest as the flesh and sinew began to re-knit, shifting around like a bunch of worms. At this point, most of the Horns of Hammerad had to look away, but she kept watching. It was her body after all.

After about a minute, the top layer of skin began to close. Ryoka saw her flesh flow together to become smooth and whole. It was the most satisfying sight she’d ever seen.

Ceria tapped the bottle for the last drops of healing potion to fall out and then tucked it away in her belt.

“Looks good. I’m going to dispel the magic now. Ryoka, how does it feel?”

Ryoka shrugged. She was red-faced, mostly because of her reaction. She glanced at Gerial.

“S-sorry.”

“No problem.”

He winced; she must have really grabbed his shoulder. Ryoka turned back to Ceria.

“I can’t feel anything. But it looks good. Go ahead.”

Ceria nodded and grabbed the wand at her belt. She murmured a few words, and Ryoka listened for magical tongues, some deep magic—but all she heard was a disappointing normal voice.

“[Dispel Magic]. Alright, I’m ready to put the spell back. Ryoka? How’s it feel?”

All of the adventurers crowded close, alternating between staring at Ryoka’s face and her leg.

For a few seconds, Ryoka’s face was blank. Then, slowly, she stood up. She rested her full weight on both legs and then on her bad leg. She took one step and then two. Then—

She smiled.

“How’s it feel—”

Calruz nudged Gerial and cut the other man off. He watched as Ryoka took another step and then stretched her leg out. She gingerly tested her leg by taking a few forceful steps. Then she hopped up and down.

Ryoka spun on one leg. Then she jumped and kicked out with it before landing and doing a pivot-kick that cut the air. The adventurers blinked, impressed.

Hop, spin, kick, jump. Ryoka leapt about the grass like a monkey, or a martial artist if you wanted to be flattering. She did a cartwheel and then a spinning back kick. At this point, Gerial and the other adventurers were gaping openly, and that was before Ryoka started doing back handsprings and front flips.

“I take it you’re feeling better, Ryoka?”

The young woman stopped and grinned at Ceria. She flicked some sweat off her forehead.

“I’m great. Better than great.”

This time, Calruz was the one who was lost for words. Gerial had plenty, though. He stared openly at Ryoka.

“How did—I’ve never seen anyone do that.”

The other adventurers nodded in agreement, but one of the mages shook his head.

“I have. Tumblers and performers have those kinds of Skills. Do you have the [Performer] class, Miss Ryoka?”

She looked at him, mildly insulted.

“No, I’ve just got skill. You should see me do parkour or tricking.”

“Par—what?”

“It’s a type of running. Or—I guess you could call it a type of martial arts.”

Again, Ryoka had lost her audience.

“Marital what?”

“I’ve heard of that.”

Ceria nodded and smiled at Ryoka.

“You are full of surprises, aren’t you? And your leg doesn’t hurt? You don’t feel any twinges or pain?”

Ryoka smiled.

“None.”

“Pisces did his work well, then. I thought he would. He might be an idiot, but he’s a competent one.”

Gerial cleared his throat.

“I’m glad. Well, uh, what should we do now? It’s been a long trip, and there’s the inn or Liscor…Ryoka, did you want to, uh, do anything?”

The Horns of Hammerad stared at Ryoka. She was practically vibrating with energy, unable to sit still.

“I’m going to run back.”

“What?”

“I’ve gotta run. Sorry but—”

Gerial and the other Horns of Hammerad exchanged glances. The male [Warrior] nodded and grinned at her.

“We understand. I’ve broken bones before, too.”

Ryoka nodded. She was already looking at the wide, open plains. But then she looked back and hesitated.

“I don’t want to get in your way. I can probably find my way back on my own if you want to stay—”

“Nonsense.”

This time, it was Calruz who interrupted. The Minotaur snorted.

“We’ll follow in the wagon and pick you up when you slow down. There’s over a hundred miles between here and Celum. Even I—you couldn’t run that far.”

She gave him a grin. Even now, with the best intentions in the world—his comment made something flare up in her chest. She put her hands on her hips.

“Wanna bet?”

He blinked at her, and Ryoka hesitated. Wait, wait, don’t—she tried again.

“Um, thanks anyways, though. But if you need to rest—I know you were up all night.”

“We’ll give the horses a stamina potion, don’t worry.”

“Ponies!”

The [Driver] was still waiting by the wagon. The half-Elf rolled her eyes and smiled at Ryoka.

“If you’re going to run, stick to the road. Monsters around here are fairly dangerous. Stay away from the big rocks. They’re actually giant monsters in disguise.”

All of the other Horns of Hammerad eyed Ceria askance. But Ryoka just nodded. Her entire body was coiled like a spring. But again, she paused before running.

“Thank you. I really mean it.”

Calruz snorted.

“Enough words. Run already!”

Ryoka nodded at the adventurers. She gave them a rare, full smile, and at least a few hearts in the Horns of Hammerad skipped a beat. Then she took off.

Calruz must have had the idea to run with Ryoka, at least for a while, because he took off with her. He got ten steps before she’d left him completely behind. Ceria whistled softly as she saw Ryoka blaze through the grasslands.

“Let’s see if our [Wagon Driver] wants a break and get on the road if you want to follow her, Gerial. It looks like she’ll go at least forty miles before she runs out of steam.”

Gerial nodded and began ordering the Horns around, although they already knew what to do. Calruz stomped back, looking half-pleased, half-disgruntled.

“Fast. But that’s why she is worthy.”

Ceria eyed him while Gerial deliberately began fiddling with a blue potion he’d pulled from his pack.

“It’s worth repaying our debt to her, but it’s too bad we can’t stay in Liscor, Calruz. You know those new ruins are nearby. It might be worth getting the drop on the other adventuring teams and exploring it first.”

He shook his head.

“Not without a full-fighting party. There’s a reason none of the cowards around here have dared breach the upper levels yet. If we come back, it will be after we know what monsters have been sighted there and our wounded have recovered.”

“Practical, I suppose. I’m just surprised to hear that coming from you, Calruz.”

Calruz eyed Ceria irritably.

“Why? Because I am a Minotaur?”

Her gaze didn’t waver.

“No, because you’re you.”

He snorted and grinned. The Minotaur was one of the Beriad, whatever that meant, and he sometimes showed his talents. Such as now as he eyed Liscor in the distance.

“I’m no fool, and the Horns of Hammerad aren’t Gold-ranked. Not yet. A proper strike force will take setting up. Let alone the provisioning. We will wait. Now, let us follow the quick Ryoka Griffin.”

The female [Mage] groaned as she climbed into the wagon.

“Another day and night of riding. Too bad we couldn’t stay at the inn.”

Calruz eyed the currently empty inn and shook his head.

“Bah, it doesn’t look that inviting anyways. It’s got holes in the roof, and if the [Necromancer]’s a customer, I shudder to think what the rest of the guests are like. Let’s go!”

The Horns of Hammerad set out, travelling down the central slope and for several miles until they found the main road. They kept going for an hour before Gerial raised his head and sniffed from the driver’s seat.

“…Does anyone smell smoke?”

——

Ryoka ran. She ran through the grass and kicked off the ground. With every step, she felt like she was being reborn. And she was running fast, perhaps faster than she’d ever run before. Her wings were back.

She crested a hill, stormed down it in half a second, and then hit the flat ground before another crest made her dig into the soft grass. The bumpy landscape of the area was perfect for muscle training, if she’d been so inclined. But as it was, Ryoka was just enjoying the feeling of running again.

She kept to the main road. Even with all the passion in her soul, Ryoka wasn’t about to risk running into whatever monsters Ceria had mentioned. She eyed the large, immobile rocks as she ran and wondered what was living underneath them.

At this time of day, the road was actually crowded with a few travellers. Ryoka either hadn’t seen them in her delirious ride to Liscor, or it had been too late at night/early in the morning. But now she saw merchants riding in armed caravans, farmers sitting on wagons, and even the lone traveller. Some were Human. Most were not.

Giant lizards. Hairy dog-people. Ryoka would have stopped and stared—or discreetly observed them—but the fire of running was burning her from the inside out. She ran at a good distance from the road as she flashed by the travellers. In turn, they stared at the Human running by them with undisguised curiosity and amazement.

Merchants, traders, travellers, peddlers, caravan guards, farmers, and the occasional group of adventurers all travelled the road to Liscor. Oh, and one more group.

[Guards].

Ryoka blitzed by a party of Gnolls, who sniffed and turned their heads almost too late to see her go by when she saw the group of armed Drakes. They reacted to her presence by reaching for their weapons, but when they saw it was just a lone Human, they relaxed. All except for one, that was.

Her legs and body were still fine, but Ryoka was thinking of slowing down to conserve energy when she saw the blur move out of the group of guards and chase after her. She heard the whoops and cheers of the Drakes and realized one of them was trying to race her. Ryoka looked over her shoulder.

A green blur was charging after her. It was one of the guardsmen, a big Drake with a spear on his back. Another one of the bonehead types who thought they could outrun her just to show off to their friends. She increased her pace. And…so did he.

He was fast. Ryoka sensed him behind her, and then he was right next to her. She gaped as he appeared by her side, giving her a smug grin. He was huge, and he was carrying a weapon and wearing armor, but he still was nearly as fast as she was. Nearly.

Her feet dug into the soft grass. Ryoka increased the tempo of her legs and went into overdrive. The Drake blinked as she accelerated. He tried to speed up, and for a few seconds, he managed to keep pace. But Ryoka had wings on her feet, and this was her first run in nearly a week. He might as well have tried to catch the wind.

“Hey! Wait! No fair! Let me take off my armor! And my boots!”

He began to shout, panting, and she laughed at him without slowing down.

How fast was she going? Ryoka saw the travellers on the road blur and then disappear with each step. She was in a completely different world of her own now, and even the insanely fast Drake couldn’t keep up. This was her world, a world few people would ever know.

For a second, Ryoka wished her iPhone were working so she could listen to some music or record herself running for one of the compilation videos on Youtube. But then she left those thoughts behind. She ran.

The guardsman fell behind. No matter how hard he tried, he couldn’t keep up with her. Ryoka turned her head and flashed him a smile for a good race. He desperately pumped his arms and his legs, but his weird speed was no match for her. And his posture was terrible.

Wait. Was he wearing armor? And carrying a spear?

She heard him call out after her, but Ryoka had hit the zone, and she couldn’t be stopped. She ran on and smiled into the breeze. The feeling was back. She was back.

She was free.

——

Relc gave up running when the female Human was over a hundred feet ahead of him. Disgusted, he ground to a stop, tearing up the grass with the force of his momentum. A nearby caravan of Human traders stared in amazement at him, but that was only because they were far too late to admire the runner still sprinting in the distance.

Frustrated, the Drake pulled his spear out and stabbed the ground. This was a first. He’d never—well, seldom ever been outrun. And never by a Human. He stared at Ryoka’s tiny back with a hint of admiration in his eyes.

Then he turned and began trudging back to the group of guards he’d left. They were several miles away. Relc grumbled about the inconvenience, conveniently forgetting he’d been the one to challenge Ryoka to a race. He took one more glance into the distance, but couldn’t see Ryoka’s figure anymore.

“Humans. Huh. I wonder if Erin knows her?”

——

Somewhere around the same time, Erin Solstice wasn’t shopping. Nor was she in Liscor. In fact, she’d left the city several hours ago. Right now, she was lost.

Not completely lost. She knew where Liscor was—roughly. She could follow the mountain range to get to it and therefore back to her inn. So she wasn’t lost in the grand scale of things.

But on a closer, localized level, she was very lost. In fact, Erin would go as far as to say she was completely lost.

She’d left The Wandering Inn behind with her supplies and then…

It was like stepping into a maze, but instead of the walls being vertical, they were all horizontal. Erin frowned. Did that make sense?

The hills and valleys of the grasslands were nearly indistinguishable from the flat ground at a distance, and the uniform long grass made things worse. Erin had to navigate using what little landmarks she could see by.

For instance, there were helpful rocks in the distance…except they occasionally moved around, and getting close to one was a bad idea. Oh, and the grass changed from green to yellow to orange and even purple in lovely patterns!

…Too bad that changed every day. So yes, Erin had little to navigate by other than the mountains and the few objects tall enough to be seen from every hilltop. This place really wasn’t that diverse in local fauna; most of it seemed hidden by the tall grass.

There were patches of red and white flowers that Erin saw now and then in this area, but she had a bad feeling about them. A little bell seemed to go off every time she bent down to pick one up in her head.

“[Dangersense].”

At least, it was probably that. It could just be a random bad feeling, but that was pretty much the same thing when you got down to it. Either way, Erin had decided not to try and smell the pretty flowers.

She looked around as she walked through the grasslands. This was amazing. In more than one sense. For one thing, she’d just spotted a road a few miles to the left. A road. She had no idea Liscor even had a road!

Well, that probably wasn’t that big a surprise. But Erin had just realized how narrow her little world had been. She’d practically lived only in her inn and occasionally in Liscor without exploring any other direction. And why?

Oh yeah, because of the monsters. Well…there weren’t any she could see. Erin wasn’t too far away from the main road, and Selys had said that was the safest area. She’d made Erin promise to stay close to the area the Watch patrolled.

But now, Erin had found a forest, and she was going to explore it. Because it was a forest. Literally the only trees Erin had found aside from the blue fruit trees. But these looked like proper trees…except they were missing all their leaves. Long, oddly wide branches criss-crossed some vaguely fir-like trees, which had a lot of dark blue-green leaves scattered at the base of the forest in a wide area.

Sturdy, in short, but they’d already lost their leaves. This could have something to do with the season. Apparently, it was around fall, closing in on winter. Erin hadn’t believed it, but Selys had assured her it was true. Apparently, the mountains made it so that the seasons didn’t hit the area around Liscor as hard or something because it wasn’t that chilly.

“Or maybe this is like Florida or California. No snow, no searing heat. That’d be nice. No, wait, Florida’s got muggy mosquitoes and crocodiles. Michigan rules. Yep, yep.”

Erin muttered to herself as she approached the dry-looking trees. It was a lovely forest and not too far away from her inn. Only…forty minutes if she walked straight? Okay, that was a good distance, but only because Erin was on foot.

Hm. The brown wood of the trees was definitely brighter in color than the ones back in her home. They actually looked closer in color to how trees were drawn, not how they actually looked with all the dark bark, moss, and whatnot. Erin wanted to go closer, but then a bell went off in her head.

The [Dangersense]. It had been dinging whenever Erin thought about going close to the flowers, but now it clearly and definitely rang out in her mind. From a little dinging bell to, say…a fire alarm. That level of difference. It was like a bad feeling in her gut—except in her head. And it told Erin that she did not want to get closer to the trees.

Erin quickly stepped back. Something was wrong with the forest. But what? They were just trees. But was something living in the forest? In the trees?

Cautiously, Erin reached into the bag she was carrying with her. She’d brought a small rucksack loaded with a few essentials for a day-long exploration. It hadn’t been too expensive, and she had wanted to be prepared. It wasn’t as if she were completely reckless like Selys and Krshia clearly thought she was.

Erin rummaged with one hand as she kept an eye on the forest. It was hard to feel around in her bag without looking, especially because she wanted to keep a certain item in there from breaking. Where was it…?

She’d brought a flint and steel and tinder, which she actually knew how to use in case she needed to make a torch. Not that she planned on exploring any caves, but it seemed like a practical choice. There were also bandages, but Erin didn’t want them. Her hand rummaged through the rucksack blindly.

She also had a long knife in a leather sheath she’d bought from the Adventurer’s Guild. They sold a number of items for adventurers behind their counter, and once Selys realized Erin wasn’t going to be dissuaded, she’d insisted Erin take one.

And a healing potion, of course. It was expensive—nearly a gold coin even for a weak potion, but Erin would have bought one regardless of the price. She’d learned her lesson.

Something smooth. That was the hand mirror. Apparently, this was an adventurer’s tool to check for injuries like poison barbs or in case of basilisk attacks. Whether or not basilisks actually existed…Erin had figured she could use a mirror anyways.

She’d bought it because she really wanted one, but the thought of a grizzled warrior checking out his appearance was also pretty funny.

Erin had laughed, but then Selys had told her about how some bugs could sink into an adventurer’s skin and lay eggs that would hatch and eat them from inside out. That had been disgusting and made Erin feel like a jerk for laughing. But it still hadn’t stopped her from exploring, especially after Selys admitted those insects didn’t live anywhere near Liscor.

Selys didn’t seem to get it. Come to that, Krshia didn’t really get it either. The Gnoll seemed to think Erin was trying to avenge Klbkch. She’d offered to come along to ‘hunt’ with Erin, but Erin had refused.

None of them really understood. They thought Erin was crazy, and she probably was, but her reason made sense to Erin. This was something she had to do.

“I wish—”

Erin broke off and shook her head. What was she doing? Erin stared blankly at the object she’d pulled out of her pack. Oh, right.

She was holding a rock. In fairness, it was a nice rock. Rough around the edges, true, but a prime specimen of a rock nonetheless. Erin could hold this rock and know it was definitely made of stone. It was nicely heavy too, and it was her prime defense against anything.

Erin hefted it and squinted at the tree. Hm. She backed up until she was around fifty feet away. That seemed safe enough. Then she lifted the rock, took aim, and threw.

Erin had never played baseball as a kid. It was a boy’s game, at least where she’d grown up, and they were all jerks when it came to letting girls have a turn. But she’d played catch now and then, and there were plenty of baseball games on TV that she would occasionally watch. In short, Erin had a pretty good idea of how fast a baseball could be thrown.

The rock she tossed had about the same velocity as a fastball. Not a major-league fastball, the kind that could dent metal or kill people but—actually, this was a rock. It could totally kill people, even at Erin’s slower velocity.

And it had perfect accuracy. Erin watched the rock she’d thrown strike one the trees dead center, hard enough to dent the bark. Another Skill. [Unerring Throw]. With it, Erin literally couldn’t miss.

The rock fell to the ground. Erin watched the tree. The branches were shaking from the impact, but nothing else happened. Maybe there wasn’t anything living in the trees after all. Or maybe it was hiding or only lived in certain trees or somewhere deeper in the forest. Or maybe—

Waitaminute. Erin froze. The branches were still quivering long after the impact. Why were they doing that? But the tree seemed to flex and—

Her body was diving, so Erin didn’t see what happened at first—just the roar of sound like a thousand popcorn kernels exploding. Popcorn kernels the size of car tires with the sound of a car backfiring, maybe. And the tree erupted into…

Fireworks. Each branch and twig on the upper section of the tree instantly and spontaneously exploded outwards like a shrapnel bomb going off. Acorns, pieces of bark, and small bits of the branch fired outwards, thousands of bullets.

Erin dove to the ground as the deadly wooden hail rained around her. She was lucky. The explosion was far enough away that most of what hit her had lost its momentum. She felt bits of wood showering her as she covered her head with her hand. A few sharp impacts struck her clothing—but Erin was mostly just terrified.

Only when she was quite, quite sure everything had stopped did Erin look up.

The tree was completely denuded of bark and most of its smaller branches. It stood among its fellows, the pale yellow-green-white of its trunk showing. Around it in a hundred meter radius, bits of the tree lay on the grass.

Shakily, Erin got to her feet. She felt something trickling down her face and touched at her cheek. Something—an acorn—had cut a shallow gash down her left cheek. She looked at the blood on her fingertips and tried not to throw up.

——

It was only after she’d put at least a mile between her and the exploding trees that Erin stopped to call herself twenty kinds of stupid. Then she decided never to ever go near anything tree-related again without a flamethrower. Monsters were one thing, but this—

Erin sighed and sat down on a small hill. Well, that was probably why no one explored around this area. Exploding trees. Unless you were wearing armor—and even if you were—those things were deadly. She imagined what would happen if Rags and her Goblin friends tried to gather firewood from the trees and shuddered.

Curiously, her near-death experience left Erin ravenous. She opened her rucksack and fished around cautiously inside until she pulled something squishy out. She unwrapped the wax paper and revealed a slightly squashed sandwich. Apparently, Drakes weren’t the biggest bread-fans in the world—and neither were Gnolls.

Oh, they respected the stuff enough to make sandwiches, but Erin had learned that they were closer to carnivores than Humans. But their sandwiches still tasted great. This particular sandwich had mustard, or something sweet that tasted vaguely like it, cheese, and a lot of meat. Erin devoured it and then wished she hadn’t eaten so quickly. She clutched at her stomach, and then she saw the spider.

“Oh god.”

It was a large spider. It had a bright yellow pattern on its back, almost like a melted skull or face, yellow and brown. The back carapace was twice as wide as a tennis racket, and huge legs crawled the spider forwards as its black eyes, dozens of bulbs staring blankly ahead, let it scuttle through the grass while seeing in every direction. A large—no, huge spider. And it had—

“Oh god. Is that armor?”

Maybe it wasn’t armor. Maybe it was. But the yellow and black pattern on the spider’s back made the thick layer of…carapace look even more sinister than it was. It looked like a blown up house-spider with plated armor, especially in the way the plating covered the giant spider’s legs and the top of its body. Erin was pretty sure it was armor.

Click.

The spider clicked its mandibles together as it approached Erin. She froze up, but then grabbed her rucksack and scrambled away. The spider scuttled faster, and Erin backed up even faster.

She turned and ran. That was, until Erin’s [Dangersense] went off like alarm bells. She stopped in place. What was—

It was nearly too late. Erin was just about to take another step when she noticed the odd way the ground seemed flimsy in front of her feet. She took a look behind her—the armored spider was still a ways away. She kicked at the ground, and it collapsed.

A huge pit opened up in front of Erin. The fake earth—in fact, some kind of green amalgam of dead grass and sticks—fell down, and Erin stared down into the face of hell. A nest full of spiders. And eggs.

They were everywhere, tiny spiders, big spiders, and eggs. So many white egg sacs that lay on the ground and walls of the massive cavern like obscene fungi. And as the trap ground fell in, they all surged into frantic motion. A writhing horde of legs skritched together as they swarmed the bits of dirt right below Erin.

Spiders began scurrying all over the huge nest, scurrying all over each other as they searched for the prey that had fallen into their nest. Their pincers opened and closed, revealing fleshy…insides, biting at the air hungrily. Meanwhile, the prey standing at the edge of the nest backed away in horror.

It was only when she heard the scuttling of the other armored spider that Erin remembered it was behind her. She turned, screamed, and ran around the edge of the pit. It followed her, but interestingly, the other spiders in the cavern below didn’t. They were still mindlessly swarming around the ground, protecting the eggs and searching for something to eat. But the large one was still hunting her.

She ran. It followed. Slowly, quietly. Even after Erin had run several hundred meters, she could turn around and still see it approaching. And then she realized it wasn’t going to stop. It was a premonition. The spider was going to follow her until she stopped.

So Erin slowed from her run to a walk. She turned around and took the rucksack off her back. Erin reached inside and pulled out two things: a rock and a small jar stoppered up extremely thoroughly. She placed the jar at her feet in the grass and hefted the rock.

It was stupid to go exploring. Selys had told her that a hundred times. Krshia had said the same thing, but she’d suggested coming along with Erin with a few more Gnolls. Erin had shot down both ideas. She had to do this alone.

Maybe it was going to kill her, but Erin had woken up screaming and crying every night since Klbkch died. So she didn’t run. She picked up the rock and aimed at the spider.

Its head was black, and Erin couldn’t make out any features. Just the bulbous eyes, like a fungoid growth—no pupils and, somehow, even less like a person’s face than the Antinium’s multi-faceted eyes. She expected the spider to have large jaws or something, but the pincers were small. It was still oversized and horrific.

“I’d say stop, but you don’t understand me, do you? Last chance!”

The [Innkeeper] shouted just in case the spider could hear her. It slowed…slightly, and she wavered, but the spider then began to scuttle even faster. Erin waited another second, then hurled the rock at its head.

The stone smashed into the spider’s head and crushed one eye. Greenish blood oozed from the broken orbs as Erin recoiled. The spider reeled back and emitted a high-pitched noise that Erin could only half-hear. For a second, she thought it had worked and the spider would run. But then the spider ducked low to the ground and advanced.

Its remaining eyes stared blankly at her as green ooze ran down its face. Now Erin knew spiders bled. But the armor covering the spider’s head hadn’t even cracked from the rock. Erin stared at the spider. It was coming.

Huge. Nearly half as tall as she was—albeit long on the ground. Every instinct in Erin was telling her to run. But she didn’t. If she ran, it would follow her.

If she ran far enough, maybe she’d be able to get to the city before she ran out of energy. Maybe she’d run right into another pit trap. But either way, someone would have to kill the spider. If not her, then a guardsman. Relc or Pisces. Or even Rags. Someone would have to fight in the end, and someone might die.

So Erin didn’t run. She held her ground and stared at the spider. It would kill her or she would kill it. She knew that would be the case, and she didn’t run. Because that was the reason she was out here.

To never see someone die protecting her. To never hold them in her arms and hear their last words. To never cry and feel guilt without end.

To never be weak again.

So instead of running, Erin picked up the glass jar she’d placed in the grass. She threw it at the charging spider.

The jar broke, and the green liquid covered the armored spider. This time, however, it wasn’t the impact that mattered.

The spider slowed as the green liquid covered it and instantly began to smoke. This time, its screech was longer, more protracted.

Acid. Acid from the Acid Flies. It ate away at the spider, and Erin saw smoke rising from its armor. The acid bit into the spider’s armor, but again, it wasn’t enough. The spider curled up on the grass as smoke rose from its armor and clawed frantically at its ‘face’. But then the smoking eventually stopped and the spider got up.

Of all the—Erin had been sure that the acid from the flies would have dissolved her flesh in a moment. But it occurred to her—belatedly—that of all the species endemic to this area, spiders would be the one species resistant to their natural prey—flies!

Too late to regret not taking two jars. Erin waited. She’d blinded the creature, but now she was fighting a half-blind spider covered in acid that ate away flesh. It approached, and she saw the yellow and black plated exoskeleton was pitted with the green of the Acid Flies. But it wasn’t enough.

Erin reached into her pack and drew out the knife. She threw it, and the blade spun through the air and bounced off the spider’s head. Useless. Erin emptied the rucksack and wrapped it around one hand. She walked forward slowly.

Her ears were pounding. Blood and her crashing heartbeat drowned out everything else. The spider hesitated as Erin walked towards it. It touched the ground delicately with one foreleg and tried to circle. Erin didn’t. She walked towards it. Her eyes stared at a monster scarier than anything else she’d ever seen in her world. But she didn’t run.

Erin stopped a few feet away from the spider. Her pulse was electric; her stomach was missing. She looked down upon it, and the spider hesitated. Erin spoke to it.

“I’ve held a dying friend and known pain. Try and kill me. You can’t eat a broken heart.”

She raised her fists.

“Come on. I’ll bury you deep.”

——

A wind blew down from over the mountains. It was a strong wind, but tired. After hundreds of miles, the gale that had blasted across the sea was no more than a whisper. But it was enough. It carried smoke and burning on the wind.

The female adventurer stopped and looked to the north. The wind blew the dreadlocks of her hair, and she brushed at her eye. The smoke was irritating, but she had learned long ago to see even in sandstorms.

She had never been here, not along the High Passes. She had often seen the mountain range, but hither-to this day, she had never been allowed to walk this far north on Izril’s land. It would have taken an army to bring her this far, before. She would have been an enemy, and reaching this spot would have meant a triumph, half a continent taken by force of arms.

…These days, no one contested her simply because of her reputation and because all wars had ended long ago. These days, she searched for something unique, and even the geography of places she had not been did not excite her.

She had seen every wonder, ridden across great nations, fought in the greatest wars of this generation, and seen millions bend knee, if not to her, then to the man she rode behind. Smoke, this mildly unique geography, held little intrinsic interest to her anymore.

Still, it was curious because she’d heard no one lived out in the wilds. Perhaps a [Hunter]? She had all the time in the world, so the adventurer walked towards the smoke. She didn’t bother drawing the large sword resting along her back in a huge sheath. She couldn’t carry it at her side because the blade was too long.

She had no need of it yet. Her confidence was not unfounded either.

The woman wore armor made out of some dark metal. Not dark in the sense of jet-black iron or the lightless color of obsidian—just dark, orange-brown metal. From afar, it almost looked like rust, but the armor wasn’t rusty. In fact, it was fairly clean—it was just the metal that gave off that impression.

It had never been broken. Not by magic or force of arms, and she had worn it for decades. It was like the adventurer’s second skin, and it did not impede her movement as she strode towards the smoke. But she stopped as she saw the spider.

It was crawling up from a hole in the side of a hill. Burning wood had been placed around the gap, but the spider was determined. It shoved its way past the fire, screeching horribly and smoking. When it saw the female adventurer, it reacted instantly. The spider lunged.

The adventurer drew her sword and cut twice. The spider fell to the ground, legs and abdomen severed. Yellow pus oozed from its backside as the adventurer studied it.

“Kingslayer Spiders? No—Shield Spiders.”

She left the Shield Spider where it lay. The adventurer continued onwards, and upon reaching the top of the hill, she saw the main source of the black fumes.

A large pit was giving off black smoke. Orange sparks and a terrible red glow lit the edges of the pit like a gateway to some abyssal plane. But that wasn’t what drew the adventurer’s eye.

A girl was sitting by herself at the edge of the smoking pit. She stared into it, ignoring the small campfire on her right. She was hugging her knees as she stared down. She did not see or hear the second spider crawling up behind her.

It lunged. The adventurer gripped her sword, but the girl at the edge of the pit moved like lightning. She rolled sideways even as the Shield Spider launched itself at her back. The momentum carried the spider over the ledge and into the smoking hole. The adventurer heard an agonized shriek from the spider as the girl went back to sit at the edge of the hole.

Cautiously, the adventurer approached. Not out of fear for herself, but she was studying the girl with a great deal of confusion. Her eye narrowed as she appraised the girl. And she was a girl, especially to the adventurer.

As she moved closer, the girl looked up at her. She was Human. She didn’t stand up, but merely angled the thing at her feet more precisely.

A small mirror lay in the grass in front of the girl, reflecting the landscape behind her. It was propped up on a small backpack, or what remained of one. In truth, it was more like a pile of cloth scraps.

The adventurer eyed the girl. She seemed unharmed. But she also didn’t appear inclined to chat. So the adventurer cleared her throat.

“Hello there.”

“Hello.”

The girl didn’t glance up. She hugged her knees and stared down into the smoke. Curious, the adventurer drew closer. Her hand wasn’t gripping her sword, but neither was she unwary.

Now that she was only a few feet away, she could feel the heat radiating out of the pit. It was intense, but it was a fire in its final stages. Clearly, the fire had been going for quite some time, but again, that wasn’t what drew the adventurer’s attention. No, it was the many shapes that lay curled up at the bottom of the fiery pit.

Spiders.

They lay in droves, their armored carcasses smoking and burning horribly in the flames that danced around the edge of the hole in the ground. Some had tried to climb. They hung, dangling, their legs still planted in the dirt walls where they had perished.

“A nest. I have heard they are a hazard around here to travellers.”

“Yeah. It’d be bad if you fell in without seeing it first.”

The adventurer blinked her eye at the girl.

“Did you do this? By yourself?”

“Yeah.”

“May I ask how?”

The Human girl paused. She rocked back and forth for a while before responding.

“I closed off all the entrances with dried grass and wood. Then I started tossing burning branches into the pit.”

“Where did you get the wood?”

“There’s a forest over there. Bunch of trees and lots of dead wood.”

The adventurer glanced over in the direction the girl was pointing. She nodded.

“Krakk trees. They do burn well, but you were lucky none of them exploded. They do that quite often, and the shrapnel is deadly.”

“They did explode.”

The adventurer raised an eyebrow. She looked at the girl with one eye and then opened several more to study her more fully.

“Oh?”

“I threw rocks at the trees until they exploded. Then I picked up the branches. It’s not dangerous if you make them explode first.”

“I see. Clever.”

“Thanks.”

One of the adventurer’s eyes glanced over to her right. At the corpse of the spider battered to death.

“Did you do that as well?”

“Yeah.”

“Few could best a Shield Spider with their bare hands.”

The girl shrugged again. She clutched at her arms unconsciously.

“It wasn’t hard. I flipped it and started stomping.”

“You have a Skill. [Lesser Strength]. Even so, I see you were injured.”

The girl—no, the adventurer saw her name was Erin Solstice—rubbed at her arms. The adventurer could see patches of regrown skin, almost invisible to any eyes but hers, covering her forearms.

“Yeah. I had a healing potion.”

“If you’d been bit, the potion would have done you little good. Shield Spiders have a decently strong venom.”

“Lucky I wasn’t, then.”

More silence. The adventurer was slightly surprised. She was used to silence, especially on longer journeys, but she was also used to conversation when she met people. At the very least, she expected questions about her appearance, but the girl had only glanced at her once. She was still staring into the burning pit.

“Shield Spiders are considered to be a Silver-rank threat. A nest of them though…I wouldn’t be surprised if a team of Gold-rank adventurers were dispatched to handle it.”

“Okay. Thanks for telling me.”

It was odd. Even in her journey north to this part—even on her dry continent she called home—the adventurer was used to people staring at her or reacting in some way to her appearance or her famous name. But the young woman just stared into the fiery pit. Quiet. The woman cleared her throat.

“You are a Level 11 [Innkeeper]. I am surprised you were able to accomplish such a feat. Few would be so brave, even ten levels higher. And you are no adventurer.”

That provoked a response. Two hazel eyes swung up and narrowed slightly, blinking in the smoke.

“How do you know that about me?”

“I see it.”

“Ah.”

Erin stared into the pit for a while. She rocked back and forth.

“I wanted to see if I could fight. And the spiders—they were going to follow me.”

“Shield Spiders are notorious for tracking and killing prey across dozens of miles. You were wise not to run.”

“I guess. But I wanted to fight. To see if I could.”

“Ah.”

The adventurer sat next to Erin. She felt the heat but was not bothered by it. Her eye stung, though.

“And? What have you learned?”

Erin was silent. She stared into the burning tunnels. Amid the crackling flames, she could hear the spiders screaming.

“…That I’m good at killing things.”

The adventurer was silent. Erin rocked. Back and forth. Back and forth.

“It’s strange. Up until this point, I never realized I was a murderer.”

The adventurer raised her eyebrow.

“Murderer? That’s an interesting word. I would not use it to describe you.”

“Oh yeah? Why?”

The adventurer spoke as if she were reciting law, with pure confidence.

“Murder is the sin of taking lives that matter. We who fight such monsters are exterminators. Killers, perhaps; murderers, no. A murderer should not be suffered.”

Her eye narrowed, and Erin stared at it, then at her hands.

“I’m not like you. I’m no adventurer. And I don’t want to be. That’s what I learned.”

“Oh? Then why fight? [Innkeepers] don’t level from fighting monsters.”

Erin laughed shortly and without mirth.

“You guys all say the same thing. It’s always about leveling with you. That’s not what I meant. I—I’m a killer. But I don’t want to be. And I don’t want to be a warrior, either.”

The adventurer leaned back on her hands. She studied Erin with her eye. This was a far more fascinating conversation than hundreds she’d had in the last months.

“Then why fight? Why not run?”

“So I can defend myself. So I don’t get people killed for trying to protect me.”

“Ah. But you have done more than that. This nest was a threat to many. You eliminated it. You spoke truly: you do have a talent for fighting.”

Erin stared into the pit.

“I don’t want to be a killer. So I guess I’m stuck as an innkeeper.”

The adventurer didn’t follow her logic and shrugged her armored shoulders.

“You have talent in killing things. You might be a good adventurer, especially since you wiped out a nest by yourself. Why are you ashamed of—”

The adventurer broke off as Erin laughed harshly.

“Killing? That’s a terrible thing to be good at. No.”

She turned—and saw a toothy smile from the woman. A sharp one—for she had sharp teeth. Disappointed as well, for she disagreed.

“A talent for war is never wasted. What a shame you don’t see it that way.”

She stared at the adventurer, and the adventurer felt another mild surprise. There were few who could meet her gaze for long without flinching.

“…Go away.”

The woman closed one eye in a slow blink and inclined her head.

“My apologies. I didn’t want to offend you.”

“Too bad. This—this isn’t something to be proud of.”

Erin pointed down into the burning pit. She gestured at the spiders and the white egg sacks slowly burning away. The adventurer could still hear faint shrieks coming from inside the resilient webbing.

“I killed them.”

Erin whispered it.

“I killed them all. And they—they scream when they die.”

“They would have killed you.”

“Yeah.”

Erin stared as one of the egg sacs below opened up. Small spiders frantically clawed their way out of the webbing and shrieked as they found themselves in the burning pit. They scuttled down across the embers, burning, dying.

“Babies.”

“Spawn. They are as dangerous as adults in numbers.”

“They’re babies.”

The female adventurer shrugged. She felt like she was talking with a Djinni—this felt like a game of words and riddles, but this was just a burnt young woman.

“You might call them that.”

Erin looked down into the pit. She was silent for a minute. The spiders were running about, but the heat from the fire was less. They were dying, but dying slow. She saw one spider caught in the egg sac, frantically trying to escape.

“If you like, I can end them now—”

The adventurer turned to Erin to offer. She blinked as Erin leapt into the burning pit.

The smoke obscured Erin from visual sight for a few seconds, but the adventurer could still see her moving around in the pit. She saw Erin fighting through the flames, reaching for something. Then she was dashing towards the edge of the pit.

The girl scrabbled at the dirt and managed to get a foothold. But she was hindered by her burden. She managed to pull herself up to the ledge but couldn’t get any higher up. The adventurer stared down until she heard Erin speak.

“Are you going to pull me up?”

“Of course.”

The adventurer reached down and effortlessly pulled Erin out. The girl was burned, but not badly from the few moments she was in the pit. She opened her left hand and showed the adventurer what she held.

A baby spider struggled and bit furiously at Erin’s fingers. She’d captured it from the top, so it couldn’t really get at her, but its sharp legs still scrabbled at her fingers.

“What are you going to do with that?”

Erin shrugged.

“Dunno. I could raise it.”

“I wouldn’t. It would bite and consume you first chance it got. Shield Spiders cannot be tamed. Unless you had the [Beastmaster] class, this child will eventually take your life.”

“Yeah, probably. This was a stupid idea.”

Erin stared down at the spider in her hands. It was trying to bite her.

“…Sorry. Really, I am.”

She held it for another second until the spider’s legs cut open more of her fingers. Then she hurled it back down into the pit. The adventurer studied her. A tear rolled down Erin’s sooty face as she watched the baby spider burn.

“What a curious Human you are.”

“…Is that your way of saying I’m an idiot?”

“Not at all. But I have met many Humans. Many Humans and many races, but never one as curious as you. Many bolder or grander or more dangerous—but never one so oddly as this.”

“Thanks. I’ve never met anyone like you.”

The woman inclined her head. Then, she blinked one huge eye and the other four in rapid succession.

“I am part Gazer. It is in my ancestry. You may call me by the name others not of my race give me. Gazi.”

“Oh? I’m Erin Solstice. A…an [Innkeeper].”

“Yes, I saw.”

Gazi held out her hand. After a moment, Erin took it. It was odd for her to shake Gazi’s hand. For one thing, she had odd arms with another segment to them. But her skin was soft and smooth, even if it were reddish-brown. Really, even her hair looked pretty normal, black lengths tied into dreadlocks. It was only her face that really set her apart.

One huge eye stared out at Erin over a mouth filled with sharp teeth. Gazi had no nose. And around her central eye, four smaller eyes opened and studied her with interest. They were not the most unsettling eyes, though each one had a pupil unlike a Human’s. Long and even wobbling, not a perfect circle but an oval, long and lengthwise. The whites of her eyes were closer to a yellow, very faint.

Her gauntleted hand had four digits too, three fingers and a thumb, which she held out to the young woman.

“I am pleased to meet you, Innkeeper Solstice. I am an adventurer wandering through these lands.”

“Nice to meet you. Again. I’ve got an inn nearby. Would you…do you want something to eat?”

Another odd offer, but this one made Gazi smile. She nodded and stood in one fluid motion. Her central eye swiveled right, left, up, and down—even backwards into her head, but she fixed the other four on Erin.

“That would be most welcome.”

“Okay. Okay then. Follow me.”

Erin picked up the mirror on the ground. She left her sliced up rucksack behind and began walking away from the burning pit. She was…still dazed, but she pointed in the direction of Liscor.

Gazi stared down into the pit and back at Erin. She coughed, again, with mild amusement at the [Innkeeper] and gestured at the embers.

“Don’t you want to claim the bounty on the Shield Spiders before you go? Their carcasses will not burn up in the flames.”

Erin paused. She turned around.

“…There’s a bounty on Shield Spiders?”

Gazi Pathseeker searched her face for a sign of lies—but saw only genuine confusion. Confusion to something everyone knew—so the half-Gazer laughed. Softly, and her huge eye fixed on something creeping up over the hill behind them.

A Rock Crab was slowly climbing the hill, pincers raised. The half-Gazer stared at it through the back of her head and the hill and the crab’s shell, and the monster froze. It held still and sunk under the stone armor it hid behind as the half-Gazer talked to Erin Solstice.

The Rock Crab stayed there, as the two conferred, and didn’t move. It didn’t stop shaking until long, long after the two were gone.



Shield Spiders by Enuryn





1.37


At first, the laden cart rumbling through the northern city gates attracted little attention. This late in the day, the traffic going in and out had thinned, but there was nothing odd about two passengers sitting on the back of the cart while a Drake [Farmer] brought his merchandise into market.

The expression on the cart driver’s face and the way the guardsmen at the gate reacted when they inspected the bulky objects strapped under the tarp attracted some attention, however. So perhaps one or two [Merchants] made a note to inquire about any unusual shipments, and the extremely bored people-watchers might have drifted that way. But many things passed through Liscor, sometimes objects considered illegal in Human lands or very illegal in every land. Those were usually confiscated.

A wise [Merchant] with illicit cargo skipped Liscor’s annoying gate checks altogether and just sent someone to buy enough food and supplies to continue south or north. This was an odd route, this bridge between Drake and Human lands.

For one thing, you could only run it during two seasons out of the year: fall and winter. Spring and Summer were far too dangerous because of the Bloodfields.

Liscor was definitely no trading city like Pallass, the closest Walled City, but it occasionally got high-profile [Merchants] making a journey that essentially locked them into one part of the continent for a year. Unless they took a sea route to mitigate the High Passes issues.

“Not a lot of business in Liscor these days, huh? Is this route even worth it?”

A local Drake [Trader] was commenting idly to a Human busily buying up more hay and bundles of food for his pack animals. They’d have to go just past the Bloodfields…which were probably safe…and it would be a while before they’d reach a settlement again.

“The Bloodfields run? It’s not something I’d do often, but I have a bunch of ore from Esthelm and Invrisil’s latest fads. It’ll be gold for copper—if the Bloodfields are quiet. I’m bound straight for either Hectval to unload the ore or, if they don’t want what I’m selling, Pallass’ steelworks.”

“Anyone coming up north?”

Any important [Merchants], the question meant. The Human resisted saying ‘for what?’ He was one of a few Humans who came to Liscor, and they were all traders, travellers, or adventurers.

The city wasn’t exactly fun to be in, and he wanted to be at least cordial with the locals, so he shrugged.

“Not much call for trade overland. The only one I could think who’d even make the journey is…the Silver Trader. I heard she might be heading north, because of her family.”

“Oh? Isn’t she from one of your [Lord]-type families?”

“Mhm. Well, that’s all I need. Can you load them in my wagons?”

“Sure, I’ll call some [Laborers] over. Hey! I need eight…”

The trading area just past the northern gates was fairly busy due to the [Merchant], so the farmer’s odd wagon was unnoticed as yawning Drakes and Gnolls walked over.

The two passengers didn’t attract much attention either, at least to begin with. One of the two was a humanoid figure concealing her face with a casual woolen hood. That was normal, although anyone who actually saw the face hiding underneath the hood had a very definite reaction. But because they had to go through shock, denial, and optionally fear/awe, the wake of her passing attracted little notice. Again, at first.

The Human was another matter. For many of the Drakes who saw her, she was just another annoying Human arriving as part of the massive influx of adventurers, merchants, and all those seeking to profit from the ruins. At best, she was exploitable and had lots of coin; at worst, the Watch would throw her out if she caused trouble as Humans so often did.

Still, some of the Drakes recognized the Human girl and remembered that this was the girl who had beaten Olesm in a game of chess and was rumored to have met the Antinium Queen. Not least, the Antinium bowed to her, which was disturbing. So she attracted the most attention, but only in the form of vague interest at most from Drake observers.

Among the few Gnolls in the crowd, however, Erin’s appearance was entirely noticed and significant. Several immediately began walking away through the crowd to find a certain Gnoll shopkeeper, and the rest followed Erin and the mysterious cart.

The Human [Merchant] brightened at the sight of another Human face—most of his workers and caravaners for this haul were Drakes and Gnolls, going home. He was about to see what this young woman was doing here when he spotted her companion—and froze. Then he noticed the mysterious cart too.

Well, mysterious was the wrong word. For the Gnolls, who could smell better than they saw, the contents of the wagon were deeply disturbing. It was only because the contents were also definitely dead that they were willing to get near to the wagon at all. Even then, several wrinkled their noses at the burned smell.

Crowds had a flow and instinct of their own. Despite themselves, passersby felt drawn into the wake of the crowd as they sensed the flow of pedestrians shifting one way. And as a few people in the crowd shouted out the identity of Erin’s companion, and some children peeked underneath the covered wagon and ran away screaming—

Well, at that point, Erin really wished they would all stop looking at her and Gazi. It wasn’t that she minded the attention…

Actually, she did mind the attention. But more than that, she really needed to pee. But she didn’t want to start squirming in front of the nice people, so she suffered in silence. It really was a long way to the Adventurer’s Guild. And it got longer each time more people joined the crowd. She had a feeling that around 10% of the excitement was due to the dead spider corpses packed in the cart, but the other 90% was definitely Gazi.



——



When Selys saw Erin walk through the doors of the Adventurer’s Guild she couldn’t help calling out.

“Erin! Thank goodness you’re okay!”

Selys went from behind the counter to go up to Erin, but she quickly retreated as a flood of people poured into the room behind Erin. She stared at the crowd of pedestrians and then at Erin. Her eyes narrowed suspiciously.

“…Erin? What’s going on?”

Erin smiled awkwardly.

“Hi, Selys. Um, I’m here to collect a bounty? That’s how it works, right?”

“Bounty…?”

The Drake stared blankly at Erin until she realized everyone was now looking at her. Then she blushed, or rather, the scales on her face changed color.

“Oh, of course! You can turn in—you have a bounty?”

“Yep.”

Selys looked Erin up and down. The Human didn’t appear to be carrying anything in her hands or at her side.

“Is it…Goblin ears?”

“No…I think they’re called Shield Spiders. Is that right?”

Erin looked at a hooded person standing next to her. Selys’ eye was caught by distinctive features of the half-Gazer as she pushed back her hood. In her mind, an alarm bell went off, but it was temporarily silenced by something Erin had said.

“Shield Spiders? Erin, that’s not a good—you’re mistaken. Or is this some kind of joke? You can’t be serious.”

Erin shook her head.

“No, really. There’s a cart of them outside. I didn’t count how many but—”

Erin broke off. Selys was giving her the flat, incredulous look she’d only seen in TV shows before.

“Shield Spiders?”

“Uh, yeah.”

“You. Killed them.”

“Yeah.”

“You. Erin Solstice. Killed Shield Spiders.”

Erin felt like she was in a comedy routine, only it was more awkward than funny. She pointed towards the door.

“Look, they’re right outside. I can go get one if you want.”

Selys’ gaze shifted over Erin’s shoulder. She appealed to the Drakes in the crowd, many of whom were watching the interchange.

“Shield Spiders?”

Erin sensed multiple heads nodding behind her. One of the Drakes—this one an adventurer by the sword on his waist and chainmail armor—jerked a thumb at the door.

“They’re piled up in a cart. I saw them—over sixteen adults, dead and covered in soot. The Watch is trying to get some Workers to unload them, but there’s a huge crowd in the way, and the Workers don’t want to do it.”

Now that she was listening, Selys could hear the shouting outside. She was still focused on the Erin-factor however, so she kept staring at Erin.

“How? Did an adventurer do it? It can’t have been just you.”

Erin frowned, dignity hurt. Since she agreed with Selys’ incredulousness though, she was only partially indignant.

“I totally did it by myself. I burned their entire nest. With wood. And fire.”

She didn’t know why she felt the need to add that qualifier, but at least it shut Selys up. One of the Drakes—the one with the chainmail—nodded at Erin and flashed her a smile.

“Fine work. I’ve never seen you around the Guild before. Are you one of the Humans from up north?”

“What? No. I’m not an adventurer. I’m an [Innkeeper].”

He stared. Erin was sort of getting used to that. Selys pulled at the frills at the top of her head.

“How did you—you know they swarm over anyone that falls into their nest and tear them apart, right?”

Erin nodded.

“They did that swarming thing—you know, where all of them climb up at once? Wasn’t fun.”

She stared at Selys. Selys stared back. After a few moments, Selys threw her hands up.

“Okay. Okay, I guess—I’ll have to inspect them. And then we’ll need to weigh the bodies. It’ll take all day probably, but if you sign for them, I’ll have your bounty waiting later.”

She reached under the counter and pulled out a logbook and handed Erin a quill and inkpot. Erin frowned down at the paper and began scribbling.

“Do I have to find a place to get rid of them after you’re done? Because I really don’t want to have to dig a hole, and the nest is far away.”

“No—we’ll definitely take them. Do you even know how valuable Shield Spider bodies are? With the right skills, a [Blacksmith] could create shields, armor…”

“Really? So the bounty—”

“Four pieces of silver on average per Shield Spider slain, but we’ll pay you more for their bodies. Especially for the bodies.”

“I don’t want them. But you might have a tough time getting them down. None of the Workers want to go near them.”

Selys glanced towards the door.

“The Antinium hate spiders. No wonder the Workers are freaking out. I’ll have a few [Porters] do the work instead.”

Selys put her face in her clawed hand for a second before she looked up at her Human friend again.

“Erin, how did you kill a nest of Shield Spiders? Even if you burned them, most adventurers would rather run than pick a fight with a Shield Spider if they’re not Silver-rank or higher.”

“Really? They’re that tough?”

Selys nodded seriously.

“Incredibly. Steel blades can’t even crack their shells.”

Erin blinked. But then she pointed to the adventurer standing next to her.

“Well, she cut one in half.”

Every eye turned towards the Gazer standing next to Erin. Or—as some including Selys recognized—the half-Gazer. A rare species made even rarer by her mixed blood. So rare, in fact, that the odds were if you met one—

Selys’ scales were usually a good indicator of her mood, along with her tail. Erin watched now as Selys’ tail stiffened like a cat’s, and her light green scales paled until they were nearly gray.

“Oh. Excuse me.”

The half-Gazer looked at Selys and gave her a polite smile. Selys was reduced to nervous stammering.

“U-um. You wouldn’t happen to be—I mean, are you…?”

“I am Gazi of Reim.”

Dead silence. If Erin’s comment about taking down a nest of Shield Spiders had inspired quiet hubbub, Gazi’s name brought awestruck silence. Silence—and a kind of fear or intimidation that swept through everyone.

In fact, Erin realized she’d been talking to Selys mostly unmolested because the people who had noticed Gazi had turned into virtual statues. Now—at her voice, someone whispered.

“The King of Destruction’s vassal.”

A shiver ran through the audience. Erin glanced around at the staring crowd. She didn’t get it, but she saw even the biggest, toughest adventurers blanch—and then Gazi smiled, and her face was full of teeth.

Erin really wanted to know what all this meant, but she had a pressing concern…and this seemed like a really good time to take care of it. As Selys began stammering something and the adventurers and civilians around Gazi backed up to give her room, Erin pushed her way through the crowd and into the bathroom.

Curiously, Liscor’s architects didn’t use the stick-man symbols to mark the men’s rooms and the ladies’ rooms apart. Rather, they used tails. A long, straight tail marked the male bathrooms, and a curly tail marked the female bathrooms. It was quite simple when you got used to it. Curly tail, straight tail.

Even so, Erin peeked inside before she entered. She’d had enough of seeing unwanted genitalia, especially since the equipment the Drakes and Gnolls carried around were definitely different than the ones guys in her world had. Not that she was an expert or anything, but—

After a few minutes of relief and ruminating on biological differences, Erin emerged from the restroom. Thank god for plumbing and soap. She saw Gazi was still at the heart of the crowd of people, fending off questions politely. Her large eye didn’t move from the Gnoll speaking earnestly to her, but one of her smaller eyes swiveled Erin’s way the instant the young woman exited the bathroom.

“Now that’s creepy.”

Erin muttered.

“Don’t be rude!”

Selys hissed at Erin and nearly made the young woman scream. The Drake was heading to the bathroom, probably to relieve tension-induced pressure. She pulled Erin aside, and the two began to whisper furiously in one corner, although only one person in the room was watching them.

“Erin, how do you know her?”

“Gazi?”

“You’re calling her by her first name?”

“She has a last name?”

“Pathseeker! And it’s Adventurer Pathseeker! That’s how you should be addressing her. Or Gazi of Reim. Or…Gazi the Omniscient! That’s her nickname!”

“That’s confusing. She’s got three different titles? That last one’s sorta cool, I guess.”

Erin was making light of this, but Selys was staring at Gazi in horror, as if afraid the woman would hear them and take offense.

“Erin! She’s a really, really important person! I could lose my job if I make her mad!”

“Really?”

Selys nodded rapidly.

“Gazi the Omniscient. That’s what they call her in other continents. She’s rumored to be over Level 40.”

“Um. Wow…?”

“Erin! How are you not impressed?”

“Well, isn’t Relc level thirty-something? That’s only a difference of ten levels, right?”

The look Selys gave Erin was a mix of incredulity and pure indignation. Not for the first time, Selys wondered if Erin Solstice wasn’t a bit slow or at least strange. But she’d said she was from…a different country? Either way, she tried to explain the obvious.

“Erin, she’s a famous adventurer! You know; the kind people write down if they make a list of the top one hundred adventurers in the world!”

“Oh.”

“Don’t you get it? There might be more powerful adventurers, but few of them have ever visited Liscor. And she knows you. Did she save you from the Shield Spiders?”

“No, she only cut one of them apart. But she lent me money to hire the wagon to bring them into the city.”

“She lent you money!?”

“Yeah, and I’ll pay her back, so stop grabbing my shirt, Selys. Look, she just seemed interested in me, but I don’t know her that well. But why do you think—”

Erin got no further because Selys’ claws dug into her arm. She yelped and tried to pry the Drake’s fingers out of her skin.

“Oh Ancestors! She’s coming this way!”

Like a shark moving through a shoal of fish, Gazi’s presence seemed to literally part the wall of bodies. She approached, smiling at Erin.

“I fear we must part ways for a time, Erin Solstice. I must greet the master of this guild and the local ruling body. But I hope I may visit you at your inn for your promised meal.”

Selys’ goggling expression was slightly hard to ignore, but Erin smiled up at Gazi anyways.

“Sure thing. I’m going back to my inn right away, so you can come over whenever works best.”

Gazi gave her an amused smile that included the petrified Drake at Erin’s side. One of her smaller eyes flipped over, so Erin could only see the light orange-pink of her eyeball.

“That may be slightly difficult at the moment.”

Someone was shouting outside. Or rather, someone was outshouting the shouting already going on outside. It was a familiar voice, too.

“Hey! Clear the way!”

Relc’s voice was irate, and he seemed to be yelling at the adventurers and other people trying to crowd into the Adventurer’s Guild. He was also on the verge of losing his temper, which wasn’t usual, but definitely wasn’t helpful at the moment.

“You lot are causing a disturbance! Clear the street I said! Move it!”

Everyone inside the guild heard a thump and then a shout and a crash. For all Gazi was their main focus, their attention quickly turned to the outside.

“What’s going on? What’s happening?”

Selys beat Erin to the window and nearly tore her hair-spikes out. Erin still wasn’t sure what to call the crest of hardened…scales or hair each Drake had at the top of their heads.

“Oh no. He’s picking a fight with the adventurers! That idiot!”

Erin peered out the window just in time to see an adventurer being lifted off the ground as Relc propped up a guardsman and shoved him into the arms of one of his fellows. It looked like tempers had flared and a guardsman had been knocked down by an adventurer. Possibly it was the other way around, but Erin saw both parties were all-male, so she had a pretty good idea what was going to happen next.

Gazi joined Erin at the window as six of the adventurers squared up and surrounded Relc and the other two guardsmen. Relc glared at them and tightened his fists, but didn’t draw his spear. Gazi stared at him and smiled.

“Ah. A warrior among civilians. A rare sight in peaceful Izril.”

One of the adventurers took a swing at Relc, and he dodged. The Human attacking was nearly as big as the Drake, a muscle-bound giant who looked like the guy who bench-pressed three hundred pounds for fun at the gym.

Erin nudged Gazi in the side. Selys stopped agonizing over the fight long enough to stare at her, but Gazi only looked down. She was wearing armor anyways, so Erin was sure she wasn’t bothering her.

“Hey, you’re supposed to be strong, aren’t you?”

Gazi nodded. She kept her larger eye trained on Relc while two of the smaller ones flicked towards Erin.

“Some have called me so, yes.”

“Why don’t you help him? It’s six against one.”

Erin pointed to the adventurer. He was still missing Relc, but now, another one looked like he was about to sucker-punch the Drake. Relc’s eyes were narrowed, but he seemed to be focused on dodging for the moment.

Gazi smiled down at Erin. She shrugged and indicated the sword at her side. The listeners peered at her, and the half-Gazer’s eye swung around.

“I do not fight with my fists. If I draw my sword—people die. I would prefer not to.”

Again, that shiver, and Erin thought her boast wasn’t much of a boast—but a promise. Gazi nodded at Relc as the big Drake swayed back.

“Besides—he is not the one who needs help.”

Relc had just jumped nimbly back when the big adventurer’s friend moved forwards. He was another Human not nearly as big, but when he swung at Relc’s back he cut the air with his fist.

Still, he was far too slow. Even as his fist flew at Relc’s face, the Drake’s bent sideways and hit the adventurer back with an uppercut. Erin thought she actually saw the man’s feet leave the ground before he crumpled in a heap.

Relc spun around and backhanded the first adventurer, who was still swinging at him. The big guy flipped over and crashed to the ground. Two of his friends came to his aid, but Relc picked one of them up—armor and all—and threw him into the crowd.

Open-mouthed, Erin watched as Relc began thrashing the other adventurers. She looked at Selys. The female Drake was covering her eyes and groaning.

“He always does this. There’s going to be a huge mess because of this, and he’s probably hurt a lot of them badly enough for healing potions!”

“How—”

Erin blinked and pointed at Relc.

“I thought—he’s just a guardsman, right? How is Relc tossing those adventurer guys like flies?”

Gazi studied Relc thoughtfully.

“He is over Level 30 in the [Spearmaster] class. That would be enough. The highest level among the adventurers is Level 21—the one he has just knocked unconscious. A [Spearmaster] is not an equal to a mere [Warrior], regardless of levels.”

Selys nodded glumly. She tried to explain to Erin in a way the Human would understand.

“If we’re just talking about active members of the city guards—then he’s the strongest on the continent, by far. Perhaps the world.”

Erin blinked at her. Twice.

“The world. As in…all of it?”

Selys nodded.

“Most people of his level, well, they either become adventurers, personal bodyguards, or soldiers. Being a city guard doesn’t pay much, but Relc likes it. Probably because it’s so easy.”

Erin paused. She didn’t notice Gazi watching her with one of her eyes. The large one. It studied her with its yellow contents, yellow not white—a shadow-black pupil. But the iris shimmered, blue and green, violet and turquoise, a shifting pattern around the black center. It held Selys’ gaze and hypnotized her a moment, before flicking away.

“But Klbkch—”

Erin paused and forced herself to go on.

“He was a Senior Guardsman too, wasn’t he? So weren’t Relc and Klb the same level?”

Selys shook her head. She watched glumly as Relc threw an adventurer wearing plate mail into the side of the building and winced as the outside plaster cracked. Gazi’s head turned, and her eyes focused on Erin. All five of them.

“Klbkch was the fourth highest-level guardsman in the city. In terms of strength, though, he was probably second to Relc. He was the Slayer, but during the war—look, Erin, both had more levels in other classes, which is why they’re so tough, understand? But even Klbkch was ten levels behind Relc.”

“Which is a lot, I get it. But how’d Relc get so strong?”

“He was in the army. But he quit to become a guardsman. Thanks to him, we haven’t had to worry about monster attacks for a long while. I’m not sure why Relc quit, though. He was famous as a soldier too.”

Gazi shrugged. Her hand covered the pommel of her sword, and her eyes unfocused for an instant.

“Many have reasons to leave war. I, too, was a soldier once. As I am sure many know. But I left my position to become an adventurer. It is only worth being a soldier if one has a cause to fight for, a leader to follow, and a reason not to die.”

Both Erin and Selys looked up at her. Gazi smiled at them.

“It is hard to understand, I suppose. But I believe your friend Relc enjoys the quieter moments. Anyone can tire of war. Believe me.”

Then, suddenly, she looked sad, and Selys gave Gazi another look of awed ‘I know what this is about, and it’s so amazing’. Erin just glanced out the window.

“Even a street-fight against a dozen guys? Have you done that before?”

“Many times. That is quite restful compared to war.”

The fight was over. Relc planted his foot over a pile of adventurers and raised his fists into the air like a boxer. The cheer he got from the crowd only served to make him preen even more in the spotlight.

Gazi turned away from the window and nodded at Erin.

“Well, I have not lacked for entertainment since travelling to these lands. I will seek lodgings within the city, then. Good day to you, Erin Solstice. We shall meet again.”

Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow.

“Oh? You’re so sure?”

Gazi smiled at her without baring her teeth.

“I foresee it.”

The half-Gazer opened the door and strode out. It was so quick that all the tension she’d brought into the room left it in an instant. Selys breathed out hard as she returned to the counter, leaning on it and panting as if winded.

“I can’t believe that just happened.”

One of the adventurers flexed his hand and looked down at it.

“I shook her hand. And when she looked at me—it was like she knew my thoughts. The King of Destruction’s vassal. Here. No one’s going to believe I met her.”

“Amazing.”

One of the adventurers agreed. Others nodded their heads as they talked, all in a flurry.

“What an incredible experience.”

“We’re not dead. I mean—the King of Destruction’s asleep. But that was—do you think any of the other Seven are here? The Architect? The Lord of the Skies?”

“No, we’d have heard of it. One is bad enough. Two? I bet the Walled Cities would be escorting them everywhere with an army.”

“Unbelievable.”

“Eh.”

“Eh?”

Erin shrugged.

“I wasn’t too blown away by her. She’s got that ‘mysterious aura’ vibe going on, but it’s all because of her eye, right? I remember seeing this street magician—David Blaine. You ever see—?”

Too late, she remembered her audience. Selys was giving her an incredulous look along with the other adventurers.

“What?”

Selys shook her head slowly. At this point, she wasn’t even that annoyed, just impressed more than anything.

“You are an amazing Human, Erin. Or an oblivious one. Does nothing faze you?”

“Lots of things.”

Erin propped her hands on her hips.

“Why are you all so impressed to see her anyways? She said she was a wanderer.”

“Yeah, but to see her so far from her home continent—I suppose she really is done with war.”

The other adventurers agreed. They began talking all at once, arguing, debating in a noisy, confused mess.

“I wonder what she’s doing away from…? I mean, Chandrar’s still her continent.”

“I hear she goes through continents looking for challenges. But to come this far—is it because of the new ruins?”

“Perhaps, but how’d she get word of them so soon? Unless—do you think she was heading to the north already? Terandria, overland? Maybe join in a war as a [Mercenary]?”

“Doubtful. Adventurers don’t like wars, even the former soldiers. It’d take something truly great to get her to go back to being a soldier. And hey—where’d the Human go?”

Everyone looked around. The Human, conspicuous because she was a Human, was missing. Selys stared towards the door. It swung closed.

“Erin!”



——



Erin heard Selys call her name, but at that point, she was out the door and had no intention of going back in. She appreciated gossip and learning new things as much as anyone, but this wasn’t the time. She was hungry, tired, and sore. And the last thing she wanted to do was have people ask her more questions and stare at her like…like…

Like a Human.

They were all over the place. Well, not all over, and in fact, there were very few Humans in actuality—perhaps one Human for every four hundred nonhumans, so the odds of seeing any were remote. But to Erin, seeing one Human was enough to make her stop in her tracks.

Two men, a tough-looking adventurer guy in his mid-twenties and a paunchier, richer-dressed merchant, were sitting at an outdoor tavern of some kind, talking to each other. Erin wasn’t sure whether to call it a restaurant. She hesitated and then wandered over, unable to keep away.

“Uh, hi there.”

The adventurer and the [Merchant] looked up. They seemed annoyed to be interrupted, but their expressions cleared as they saw Erin. The man who’d been loading up his wagon smiled genially.

“Oh—hello! Can we help you, miss?”

“I’m sorry to interrupt. It’s just—I haven’t seen any Humans in a while.”

The [Merchant] raised his eyebrows.

“It’s a surprise to see anyone but an adventurer or a fellow [Trader] in Liscor. You’re a native here?”

“Something like that. I thought I was the only Human around here, but suddenly…here you all are.”

“Ah, well, I’m headed past here, south. On business—Merchant Goeln, a pleasure. Goeln’s Caravans. But I had to see these new ruins before I went off.”

The adventurer stood up and held out his hands.

“Cervial Dermondy, adventurer. Captain of the Flawless Flights, a Silver-rank team. I’m a [Ranger] by trade, scouting out these new ruins that were just discovered. Pleased to meet you, Miss…?”

“Erin Solstice, um, [Innkeeper]. Mind…mind if I sit?”

“Oh, of course.”

The merchant moved his chair, and the adventurer pulled one close so Erin could sit down. Before she knew it, the merchant had ordered her a drink and they were talking. At first, Erin was surprised, but she fell into the conversation easily. It was just like talking to someone back from her world.

It was so normal Erin could have wept.

Cervial and Goeln had been talking about their grievances with travelling so far to get to Liscor. It seemed everything from wagons breaking down to people getting lost had plagued their caravan, and they’d also found almost all of the inns in the city crowded to the rafters, much to their displeasure.

“It’s nice to know that there are some Humans living around here. I’ve been dealing with stubborn Gnolls and haughty Drakes all day.”

The [Merchant] smiled at Erin while he made a face at the non-Humans passing by on the street. Erin sipped the lukewarm beverage from her mug and made a polite noise to agree with him. The adventurer nodded, chomping down on a baked potato filled with spices.

“I swear, they’ve raised prices just because they knew we were coming. No love towards us Humans, and the local Watch has been picking fights with the adventurers all week. To make matters worse, it seems there’s a Human [Thief] that came in with one of the caravans.”

“Really?”

Erin hadn’t heard anything about that. But then she’d been—busy the last few days. The merchant shook his head and made a noise of disgust.

“Of course, it could be a local Drake or Gnoll, but of course, we Humans get the blame until the culprit is found. Lousy lizards and their damn suspicions.”

Erin blinked at the merchant, but the adventurer was nodding in agreement. She changed the subject quickly.

“Hey, do you know anything about that new adventurer? Gazi?”

Two blank faces were her answer. Erin tried to elaborate.

“She was getting a lot of attention this morning. She’s, um, she looks sort of Human, but she’s got one big eye in her head and four small ones…”

“A Gazer? Gazi? Do you mean…Gazi the Omniscient?”

The ball dropped, and then the [Merchant] and adventurer were giving Erin a look as if she had just sprouted wings.

Erin shrugged.

“She’s a famous adventurer, but that’s all I know—”

“Gazi the Omniscient is in Liscor? I thought I saw a Gazer, but I didn’t dare believe it was her—dead gods, and I missed her?”

Goeln leapt out of his chair. Cervial’s mouth was open so wide he could have inhaled an Acid Fly. Ten of them.

“Adventurer Gazi? I almost missed—did you call her ‘Gazi’?”

“Well, yeah—”

“Put some respect on her name! Adventurer Gazi at least—she’s a Named-rank adventurer!”

Cervial looked so horrified Erin began to get a sense that maybe she had been way too informal with the woman. She gulped.

“I, uh…yeah. She’s here, and I met her on the road. Long story. Is it—is it bad I invited her to my inn?”

The two men were practically about to run off to find Gazi, but they turned back at Erin’s words.

“You have an inn? Here? Really?”

Goeln was incredulous. Erin nodded.

“Yep. Well, it’s small, and I just started—it’s just a few miles outside the city.”

“Really?”

Both men leaned over the table. Goeln gave Erin a smile in return.

“If you’ve got room in your inn, I’d be glad to pay for lodging. It’d be a nice change to see some Human faces rather than all the scales and fur around here. Not to mention the smell! All these non-Humans really don’t know how to wash properly, do they?”

Erin’s smile froze on her face as she stared at the [Merchant]. He hadn’t even tried to lower his voice. She sensed rather than saw the other Drakes sitting at nearby tables slowly glance over at her and the other two Humans. They didn’t seem to notice, nor had Cervial done more than glance at his companion—he hadn’t said a word. Neither had Erin but…

The adventurer coughed into one fist.

“I’d love rooms too; my team’s just here for reconnaissance, but if we come back, a good, friendly inn would be lovely.”

“Oh. Um, well…I’d love to have you over. But, ah—the upper floors are still under repairs, I’m afraid.”

Both looked disappointed.

“What was the problem? If it’s simple repairs, I could introduce you to some skilled craftsmen…”

Erin waved her hands quickly.

“No—no need. I’m working on it. It’s just that we had a very bad incident with disappearing skeletons. And—I should get back there to make sure more aren’t missing.”

Hastily, Erin got up and excused herself. The adventurer and merchant bade her farewell and stared after the young woman as she disappeared into the crowd. When she was gone, they exchanged a look. The [Merchant] took a long draft from the fresh mug the Drake had served him and grimaced. Like everything in the city, he could swear the ale they served him was the lowest gutter-scrapings.

“Disappearing skeletons…?”



——



Far below the surface of Liscor, or at least as far as the Antinium were allowed to dig by their contract with the city, the Queen listened to a report. She was not happy.

“Humans in Liscor? They come seeking the ruins, no doubt, to unearth treasures and seek their fortunes. Good. As for Gazi the Omniscient…she is dangerous. But not a threat to the Hives. She may still be a forerunner of what we desire. Post Listeners on her, but do not gainsay her in any way.”

The Antinium addressing her bowed his head crisply. He was perfectly balanced upon one knee as he faced his ruler.

“Yes, my Queen.”

She waved a feeler at him.

“Such matters are inconvenient, especially at a time like this. Deal with the Council until I have finished. I must not be disturbed at any cost. To complete the project so quickly necessitates all of my attention. Is that clear?”

“Entirely, my Queen. I will handle all of your affairs with those not of the Hive.”

“Good. And investigate the Aberration while you are upon the surface. If he is truly Individual, I would speak to him afterwards. If he is not—”

The Antinium touched the blades at his sides. The Soldier Antinium standing guard made no move despite his proximity to their Queen.

“I will dispose of any Aberrations I find, my Queen. Worry not.”

“I will place my trust in you. Go, then, my Prognugator.”

The Antinium bowed and stood. He whirled, and the twin swords at his waist moved smoothly with him as he walked upwards towards the surface. His Queen’s voice rumbled through the cavernous tunnels after him.

“Go. Ensure that Human does not bring about further ruin. Protect the Hive and carry out my will. Go and do this in my name…”

The Queen paused, and then her mandibles clicked softly.

“Ksmvr.”





1.38


Erin walked down the street, and she felt like sighing. No—she felt like her entire existence was a long, slow sigh.

She was tired. Tired and weary in her very bones. But more than that, she was just disappointed. And that was the worst feeling of all.

Humans.

She’d missed them. Really, she had. She’d missed her friends and being back in her home. She even missed the way people said hello as you walked into the supermarket. And she’d been missing all of that so hard that she’d forgotten how nasty people could be.

They didn’t like Drakes or Gnolls. Humans. And now that Erin knew that and heard the way Cervial and Goeln talked about Drakes and Gnolls—or at least Goeln—she understood why the feeling was mutual.

It was pretty rude to insult an entire species in their own city. Erin wasn’t too sure about much when it came to talking about race, but she was sure of that.

Erin scuffed along Market Street. She wasn’t sure she wanted to buy anything, but she didn’t want to leave the city just yet. Not because she had anything to do here—it was just that the trek back to her inn was too much for her at the moment.

Politeness. It was only right to be polite. And that went double for judging an entire species just because you didn’t like their smell. Sure, Gnolls could be prickly, but they could also be really nice. The same went for Drakes.

“There she is! There’s the [Thief]!”

Then again, there were jerks in every species.

Erin turned around at the voice. It was a familiar voice that set her teeth on edge and made her check her money pouch. Not just because of the thief comment.

Approaching at a high-speed strut down the street was a Drake shopkeeper. Erin’s eyes narrowed as he barged up to her and began shouting.

“I know it was you! You couldn’t resist attacking an honest merchant, and you decide to have a bit of revenge, eh?”

“What?”

Erin blinked at the Drake. He was visibly red with rage. He jabbed at her with a finger, and she stepped back.

“Enough!”

Another Drake pushed his way through the crowd. This one was a Guardsman, and he was visibly harried. He interposed himself between the shopkeeper and Erin.

“Lism, I’ve told you before. You can’t just start accusing Humans at random!”

“Ah, but this one is different!”

Lism the shopkeeper pointed at Erin around the guard and raised his voice so more people could hear.

“This is the Human who robbed me of my merchandise! She also cheated at the chess game with my nephew, I’ve no doubt! She’s been nothing but trouble since she entered the city, and now she’s stealing from honest folk trying to make a living!”

What was it about Erin and trouble? It seemed it followed her wherever she went. Erin gritted her teeth.

“I didn’t steal anything. I haven’t even been in the city—”

“Miss, please.”

The guardsman cut her off. He gently moved Lism back.

“I’ll look into your claims, sir, but I can’t make any arrests. Unless you have proof—”

“Hey, I said I didn’t steal anything!”

“Hah! Another Human lie!”

Lism jabbed a claw at Erin again, despite the guard’s best attempts to move them apart. Now, Erin was getting mad. She opened her mouth and clenched her fists.

“I was out of the city all day! I have proof!”

“Well—”

The shopkeeper hesitated, but now he was too far in to back down.

“It could have been her. You know how Humans get! They’re always sneaking around, going where they’re not wanted.”

“We’ll investigate your claims. Just please move back—”

“You can’t trust her word! Get a truth stone! All of these Humans have caused nothing but trouble since they got here! First, they start stealing, and then what? They’ll take our jobs, attack us on the streets—”

“Please! Move back!”

The guard finally managed to pull the enraged shopkeeper away from Erin. He struggled and hollered, but eventually, he let himself be led away. He still shot venomous glances over his shoulder at Erin, which she returned in kind.

That was unpleasant. Erin was just about to leave before the jerk came back and shouted some more when the [Guard] returned.

“Miss?”

“Oh, hi. Thanks for getting rid of him for me. Was he mad about someone stealing his stuff?”

The Drake nodded. He looked out of sorts and tired.

“There have been a number of petty thefts across the city. Shopkeeper Lism was the latest one to be stolen from.”

“Well…I’m sorry about that. Good luck finding the criminal.”

Erin tried to excuse herself, but the guardsman shook his head.

“I’m sorry, Miss, but I’m afraid I’ll have to investigate his claims. If you’ll follow me, I’ll take a statement from you. Just with a truth spell. I’ll also need proof that you were out of the city this morning.”

“What?”

“It’s standard procedure—”

“But I—he—he’s just mad because I beat him at a game of chess! Or—I beat his nephew and—look, I didn’t do anything.”

The guardsman sighed wearily and raised his hands.

“I understand, Miss, but I have to investigate all leads. Please, this won’t take too long…”

Erin looked around helplessly. This wasn’t fair. But who could help her? The other Drakes and Gnolls, well, some of them looked indifferent, others even sympathetic. But some of them were eying her. And none of them would help. What could they do?

A lot, if one of the people in the crowd was a certain female Gnoll who pushed her way through the throng and marched up to the guardsman. He visibly wilted as Krshia, shopkeeper, Gnoll, and currently Erin’s number one hero folded her arms.

“What are you doing, if I may ask, guardsman? I hear you are taking an innocent Human away on the word of a petty shopkeeper. But that would be wrong, yes?”

The guardsman backed up two steps from the angry Gnoll. He wasn’t a small Drake, but Krshia was big even for a Gnoll, and a few more Gnolls in the crowd were drifting her way.

“Look, Mistress Krshia, I’m just investigating—”

“I heard.”

Krshia sniffed and glanced down the street. Lism, the shopkeeper, ducked back into his stall as she glared in his direction.

“Lism, the sheddings that he is, talks too much and lies when he knows nothing. Someone broke into his stall, but he saw nothing, heard nothing. But he claims it was a girl who bested him out of spite. And you would bother her without evidence?”

“That’s not—I’m just doing my job. It’s just a truth spell to make sure she’s innocent. In fact, she can rely on that as proof.”

That made sense, and Erin felt it was sorta reasonable, but Krshia’s eyes narrowed.

“This does make sense—if you had any reason to suspect Miss Solstice. But all you have is Lism’s unfounded claims. She was outside the city most of the day—your colleagues can surely attest to her being at the gates, yes? Why waste truth spells on her? This seems close to harassing her for being a Human…much like one might question a Gnoll who was anywhere near a crime being committed in another city. But Liscor is not like other Drake cities, no?”

“I—”

The guardsman was torn between duty and not wanting to deal with anything remotely approaching the trouble written on Krshia’s face. He hesitated and then decided as several Gnolls casually walked out of the crowd and joined Krshia. They stood behind her and Erin, not looming but certainly projecting an aura.

“I believe I’ll continue my investigations into the break-in separately. And confirm with the Watch at the gates before I take up Miss Solstice’s valuable time.”

Krshia smiled coldly.

“Yes, that is wise.”

“Well then.”

The guardsman backed off fast. Erin blinked, still confused by what had just happened. The entire moment—well she was grateful for Krshia obviously—but it struck her as slightly wrong that the local law enforcement would back down to a bunch of civilians.

Then again, when the civilians in question were Gnolls, Erin could see why. Even at their best, they did give off a much more…bestial feel than the Drakes. It wasn’t that Erin expected them to lose their tempers, but she also wouldn’t be too surprised if they did. That kind of feeling.

Krshia smiled down at Erin as the other Gnolls around her muttered or barked to her. She growled something back to them, and they walked back into the flow of the crowd.

“Erin Solstice. I have been looking for you. And it is good that I found you just now, yes?”

“Yes. Thanks for that, Krshia. I didn’t know what to do, and that shopkeeper guy—”

Krshia narrowed her eyes and snorted.

“Lism. He causes trouble, yes? Even though you bested him fairly and his nephew is most admiring of you. But enough—I will make sure he causes no trouble. I wish to speak with you.”

“Um, okay? About what? The thief?”

Krshia flicked her fingers.

“Pshaw. It is a cowardly thing that hides and steals from us on Market Street and elsewhere. No one knows if it is Human or another, but the thefts are small. Low-level. No, I do not worry about such a [Thief]. I wish to speak with you privately. I invite you to my home for food and drink.”

Again, Erin hesitated. She was grateful but—

“Um, does it have to be now? I’m really beat, Krshia. I could use a nap—”

“I have a bed in my home too. You may use it and rest if you wish. Come.”

Gnolls were pushy. Or maybe it was just Krshia. But Erin found herself being dragged down the street before she quite knew what was happening.

“Look, I’m grateful, really, but this isn’t a good time. I just had to deal with some evil spiders and—”

“Erin!”

Krshia ignored Erin and the person calling her name. She marched through the crowd at speed.

“If we wait for a good time, we will never have time. Come, my home is not far.”

“Erin! Erin Solstice!”

Krshia visibly sighed, and her ears twitched as the mysterious name-caller drew closer. She halted in the street, and Erin finally managed to extract her hand from the Gnoll’s huge paw. She turned and saw another Drake heading her way.

“Olesm?”

The smaller, younger Drake stopped in front of Erin and Krshia, panting. He was clutching a piece of parchment and a quill and inkpot of all things. For a second, Erin was struck by the sheer inconvenience of not having pens in this world, but then Olesm shoved the paper into her face.

“Take a look at this, Erin! I just received this, and it’s the most fascinating thing ever! A new way to play chess!”

Erin blinked, but then the paper disappeared as Krshia gently but firmly pulled Olesm away.

“Most interesting, but Erin Solstice is busy. I will talk with her, and you will find her later, yes?”

She wanted to pull Erin away, but to the Gnoll’s dismay, Erin was already standing next to Olesm.

“What was that about a new way to play chess?”

This time, Krshia groaned, but Erin was already staring at the piece of paper Olesm was eagerly waving about. She tried one last attempt.

“There is time to play such games later, yes? Erin—”

But by that point, Erin and Olesm were already engrossed. Krshia’s ears twitched again, but there was nothing she could do.

“Just look at this, Erin!”

“I will if you stop moving. What is it?”

Erin snatched the paper from Olesm’s claw and stared at it. Well, it was a piece of paper. And on that paper was an inked…illustration? Erin frowned, but then she got it. It was chess. Someone had drawn a chess board on the piece of paper.

She stared down at a picture—or rather, a drawing of a chess board. Someone had taken the time to draw out the grid and then illustrate—in quite fine detail—each piece on the imaginary board. She stared down at a white king piece, a queen piece in the corner, a knight and a pawn caught in the middle of a game against two black pawn pieces, two rooks, and naturally, a king piece hiding in behind the pawns in the upper left-hand corner.

Olesm hovered over Erin’s shoulder, chattering into her ear.

“I just received a long-distance delivery that went out to all the known [Tacticians] and chess players on the continent! From the Titan of Baleros! Okay, his Great Company, the Forgotten Wing. On Baleros? He can definitely afford it. It was this paper—and it’s a challenge, see? You have to—”

“Solve it in five moves?”

“How’d you know?”

Olesm stared at Erin. She pointed.

“It’s written right here. And white moves first.”

“Yes, isn’t it amazing? I would never have thought of that—but someone’s come up with a way to play chess across long distances without a spell! But this isn’t a game at all—”

“Oh, I know. It’s a chess puzzle.”

Olesm visibly deflated.

“You know what it is? But of course—how silly of me.”

Krshia walked over to stare at the chess boards. She squinted down at the paper and frowned at the pieces.

“I fail to understand this—puzzle. Why has someone sent it to you, Olesm?”

“It’s more like a challenge to anyone.”

Erin explained absently as she stared at the chess pieces.

“It’s a challenge or a problem for players. You have to find a way to win the game in a certain number of moves. It helps people learn to play chess, and this way, you can write it down.”

Olesm nodded eagerly. He pointed to the paper.

“In this case, the solution is to checkmate the black king, but I haven’t been able to figure it out yet. I imagine most of the players across the continent are trying to figure it out. It might take some time, but I hope to be one of the first to figure—”

Erin was still staring at the paper. She blinked, frowned, and then snapped her fingers. Both Krshia and Olesm jumped.

“Hm~! Got it!”

Erin smiled and flicked the chess puzzle with one hand.

“Done and done!”

“What?”

Olesm froze and stared at Erin. She grinned at him.

“You—you finished it? Just like that?”

“Yep. It wasn’t too bad a problem. But I’ve seen several like it, so…”

Krshia glanced sympathetically at Olesm. The poor Drake stared at Erin and then down at the chess puzzle.

“—I would deeply love to know how you solved it so quickly. But I should—yes, I should solve it on my own. Shouldn’t I?”

He looked longingly at the piece of parchment Erin was holding. She grinned and folded it up.

“You should. It will help you in the long run. Don’t feel bad—I just happened to know how that particular problem goes. But it was quite fun.”

“Fun.”

Olesm repeated the word. He looked down at the paper.

“I’ve been wrestling with this problem for an hour. But—of course with someone of your level I shouldn’t expect this to faze you. Of course.”

“Do you have any more?”

Olesm shook his head. He accepted the piece of parchment back from Erin.

“This was the first—I mean, I suppose we might expect more of the same in the future, wouldn’t we? This puzzle was sent to countless cities. From the Titan. To find good opponents, I bet, and promote his game. I wouldn’t be surprised if more appear soon.”

Erin nodded.

“Oh, you mean sort of like a magazine, right? Or a newspaper?”

“A what?”

Both Krshia and Olesm looked at Erin blankly. She tried to explain. Olesm nodded his head uncertainly.

“Yes—yes, that sounds about right.”

“I’m just surprised. I thought sending stuff was supposed to be costly.”

Olesm shook his head.

“It’s not that expensive, especially if you send it with the slower deliveries.”

“Slower deliveries…?”

The Drake nodded. He gestured to the parchment in his hand.

“This was sent via magic. The Mage’s Guild can print images as well as text—but it’s extremely expensive. If it was a letter…again, the Titan can definitely afford magic, but a letter’s a fraction of the cost. And slower. Heck, you don’t even need the Runner’s Guild. You see, Runners deliver things quickly, but merchants and caravans and even ship captains will pass on long-distance deliveries for a very small fee.”

Erin frowned. She sort of got it. It was like snail mail by boat versus sending stuff by plane. And [Message] spells? That sounded like emails! But part of the process still confused her.

“How does that work if you trade the letter more than once? Do you pay the first guy a lot and have him give the money to the next person? That sounds risky.”

Olesm scratched at his scales as he tried to explain.

“It’s more like—well, I suppose you could call the letters a form of currency. Travellers will buy them for a few coins and complete the delivery in hopes of earning more when they sell them later or deliver them to their owner. Really, the Runner’s Guild is far more reliable but expensive.”

“Oh. So it’s sort of a gamble.”

“Exactly, but it’s fairly certain that the letter will get to your destination in the end. Of course, sending something private is a bad idea, but you can send a message to another continent for only a copper coin or two. It might take a month or two, but it will get there.”

Erin nodded. It all made sense. And it reminded her of—well, it reminded her of the post office in a way. Just without stamps. It was useful, it really was.

It was just that she was dreaming of email, the internet, and being able to call her family in two seconds at that moment. So she wasn’t that impressed, even though she was really trying to be.

“I wonder—do you think I could send the answer to the person who sent you the puzzle?”

Olesm hesitated.

“I don’t see why not. I mean, I won’t get in touch with the Titan, just his company. And it costs a bit, but it’s only a few silver for a [Message] spell…I bet he’ll check for answers soon, but not within an hour of sending the puzzle!”

It seemed pricier than he wanted, but Erin was getting excited. And so was Olesm at the thought of contacting and impressing this Titan. Was he actually that big?

“I can write down the answer. Do you have any paper…?”

“Write it down here. I won’t look.”

Olesm handed Erin another piece of parchment and averted his eyes as she scribbled on it. She handed it back to him folded up.

“Okay, so you send it to this person. And then this person will send me something harder?”

“Perhaps. Or perhaps they might wait until others have sent in their reply. It could take a few weeks or up to a month for a new puzzle.”

“Aw. That’s a long time.”

“But it’s so fascinating to play games across such a long distance, isn’t it?”

Erin tried to find the enthusiasm Olesm was giving off, but the truth was this revolutionary idea was small potatoes in her world. She sighed, but then she had a thought.

“I’ve got a better idea. Here, give me the paper back.”

She took the pen and dipped it in the ink pot Olesm held out.

“They sent me a puzzle, so I can send one back. Let’s see how they like this.”

Erin drew out a chess board with every piece in the starting position. She wasn’t an artist, but she did the best she could. Then she wrote in the upper left hand corner:

‘Black side will mirror white side’s every move. Force checkmate in 4 moves.’

“It’s a bit elementary, but it should be a good challenge for a beginner. You can send this via letter, if not a [Message] spell thingy?”

She showed it to Olesm and Krshia. Olesm frowned at the paper while Krshia shook her head in confusion, but then he smiled.

“I’m definitely not paying for [Messaging] an image. But I could probably send a letter via one of the bulk deliveries! What a fun puzzle! Wait…ah. I actually know this one.”

Olesm perked right back up and puffed his chest out proudly. Erin’s smile turned upside-down.

“Wait, what?”

“Several new players like to challenge me this way. So I grew quite adept at beating them. It is quite a simple solution as I’m sure you know. If you move the queen like so—”

Erin scowled and snatched the parchment back.

“Give me that.”

She flipped it over and began writing furiously on the backside. Olesm blinked, and Krshia grinned in amusement. When Erin showed Olesm the new problem, he blinked.

“That’s a—a lot of pieces.”

“Checkmate in four moves. Black moves first.”

Erin grinned evilly at Olesm.

“Four moves?”

He goggled at the paper. Erin had heard of goggling, but she’d never seen someone actually do it.

“No. That’s impossible. But—no, it shouldn’t be—”

He frowned, his tail lashing the ground.

“I can’t even begin to—how did you come up with this so quickly?”

“It was one of the puzzles that gave me a headache back when I was playing a lot. It took me nearly a week to figure it out.”

“I can’t—may I copy this? Please?”

“Go ahead. And if you’ll send this back to the person who sent the other puzzle—I’ll pay for delivery.”

“Oh, of course. Certainly. Um, you can give me a few silver coins and it will get there, but more money means a faster delivery. Sorry, but it is overseas. Maybe I could get someone to pay for an image-[Message]? But that’s gold. How about two silver and I’ll copy this to Baleros for a slow Runner letter—and to Pallass? Maybe someone will send it back to the Titan. They’re all rich in the Walled City. Tons of famous [Strategists]. Heck, the Cyclops of Pallass lives there. Uh, the Grand Strategist of the Drakes.”

“I get it. Well, not anything of what you just said, but it’s pricey. Okay…”

Erin thought about that and dug in her money pouch. She was feeling generous, so she handed Olesm two silver coins. From what Selys had told her, she’d be rolling in bits of shiny metal soon enough.

The Drake blinked down at the coins, but accepted them and promised to send the letter as soon as he copied down Erin’s puzzle. He hurried off, leaving Krshia and Erin behind.

She smiled, wondered a bit maliciously how long it would take the mysterious chess puzzler to solve her problem, and then completely forgot about it a minute later.

Krshia was still trying to get Erin to have a meal with her, but Erin was tired, still sore, and for that matter, hungry. And despite her best wishes towards Gnolls, their food was more than a little raw by Human standards.

“Look, I’d really love to visit. And I will—how about tomorrow?”

“But today is quicker, yes?”

“Yes, but—”

Erin wavered. Krshia enticed her with promises of baked food and meat. And it would be nice, even if she had the feeling the Gnoll wanted to talk to her about something important. Maybe she could relax?

But just as she was about to leave with Krshia, someone else called out Erin’s name. This time, Krshia’s ears laid flat on her head, and she turned with a glare. But the Gnoll stopped.

Gazi Pathseeker stood behind Erin in a vortex of attention. She smiled up at Krshia, and the Gnoll stared at her. Erin blinked and sighed as the half-Gazer greeted her.

“Erin. Is now a good time?”

“I guess. Did you meet all the important people you were supposed to?”

Gazi shrugged.

“I have met with various individuals. But I am sure others will introduce themselves when they realize I am in the city. However, I wonder if I might take you up on your offer.”

“Offer? What offer?”

Erin blinked at Gazi. The adventurer smiled and waved her hand.

“You mentioned you had an inn. If you wouldn’t mind, I would very much like to see it and have a meal, if I may.”

“Oh. Of course.”

Erin glanced at Krshia.

“Sorry, Krshia. It’s just that I promised Gazi—she helped me out earlier today. You don’t mind…?”

Krshia stood stock still and waved a hand silently at Erin. Gazi smiled in the Gnoll’s direction.

“Thank you, Shopkeeper Krshia. I apologize for my rudeness.”

The Gnoll murmured something, but Erin was already leading Gazi away. Krshia stared at the adventurer’s back and then shook her head. She turned, grabbed the nearest Gnoll, and began speaking quickly with him. She kept casting glances at Gazi’s back the entire time the adventurer was walking away. She hadn’t dared meet the half-Gazer’s eyes, and even now, Krshia’s hair was puffed out.

She watched Gazi, but Krshia had no idea—or perhaps she did—that she was being watched right back.



——



Erin stared in horrified fascination as one of Gazi’s eyeballs slowly rotated to face forwards in her head as the two walked down the street. Apparently, Gazers had 360° vision, which was awesome and incredibly disturbing.

She talked to Gazi while the female adventurer’s eyes roamed. She kept her big eye focused on Erin as she walked—out of politeness, Erin guessed, but her other four eyes were all moving in other directions. In fact, it was quite disturbing how Gazi’s big eye didn’t move away from Erin the entire time. Since she had other eyes, she could focus entirely on Erin even while avoiding other pedestrians.

Not that there were any to get in her or Erin’s way. The other people on the street either knew Gazi or didn’t want to walk in front of the adventurer. She was still dressed like a warrior, and even if her armor looked rusty, she seemed like serious business.

All in all—no, Erin wasn’t going to think it. But she couldn’t help it. It really felt like she was talking to a female version of Mad Eye Moody, as wrong as that sounded. A lot less grumpy and with more than one crazy eyeball, but the thought was in her head, and she couldn’t shake it.

And like the Harry Potter characters, Gazi seemed to be a sinkhole for attention. So much so that Erin felt uncomfortable as the two walked down the street towards the gates. She was used to scrutiny, but this time, the Drakes and Gnolls weren’t even bothering to hide their stares. And sure, most were staring at Gazi, but a lot of them were also staring at the weird Human talking to her.

“You’re really that famous, huh?”

Gazi shrugged, and the armor on her shoulders rolled back.

“Some might say so. I apologize if the attention bothers you. Do you dislike such things?”

“Dunno. I’ve never been famous—or popular.”

Gazi nodded.

“I believe I am more infamous than famous.”

“I’ve never been that either.”

“I believe the difference between the two is quite minute in some senses. In others however—well, suffice it to say I appreciate staring as opposed to other reactions. Some cities would not let me past the gates—or even in range of the walls. Nor will I blame them for that.”

“Right, right. I get you. I think.”

Erin and Gazi stopped at a crowded intersection. Today seemed like a weekend—not that Erin had a good grasp of the week days in this world. She spotted several families out and about, which meant that they’d entered a residential district. She seldom went there, so the sight of children was—

They were so small. And cute! Well, the Gnoll kids reminded Erin of vicious puppies, but the small Drakes were terrifyingly cute. They ran about like normal kids, dragging their shorter tails about as they scuffled, played…did all the things normal kids did, really.

As they caught sight of Erin and Gazi, some of the adults stared. But a gang of Drakes and a few Gnolls pointed at Erin instead. One of the children ran up to the two and then away. It was a boy Drake—at least, she thought it was.

That was charming, especially the way the group of kids was clearly fascinated with her. Erin was smiling—until she saw the parents.

Two Drakes, both with lighter blue scales, watched their offspring run about with his friends with affectionate interest. He ran up to her, and his parents called out, not wanting him to bother Erin. She was caught by the moment and the thought struck her before she could banish it.

Mother, father, and child.

Her smile flickered and vanished. But then Erin put it back on her face. She bent down towards the young Drake, not looking towards either of the parents.

“Hi there!”

Erin smiled at the Drake child. He immediately took a step back, but the other children pushed him forward.

“Can I ask you something?”

The boy Drake’s parents waved at him, telling him not to bother the Human. But Erin smiled. She forced the smile, but it was a smile.

“Go on, I don’t mind. Ask me any question you want.”

The Drake grinned up at her. He had very sharp teeth. But it was still an innocent smile. A mischievous smile, too.

“Can you really shoot blood out of your—”



——



Pisces was sitting at a table in The Wandering Inn, sipping from a mug at his leisure as he put his feet up on one table. At his side, he’d dragged over another table and organized a smorgasbord of cheese, meats, bread, and some sweet pastries Erin had bought for herself last time she’d been in the city.

He jumped as the door to the inn smashed open, and Erin stormed in. She was wearing a terrific frown on her face, which contrasted sharply with the amusement on the face of the half-Gazer who followed her in.

She didn’t even have to say anything. One look and Pisces’ feet came off the table, and he began industriously polishing the wood with his considerably dirtier robe.

“Greetings, Mistress Solstice. Ah, are you well?”

Erin stood in the center of the room and glared at everything and nothing.

“I hate kids. I hate Drakes, and I hate people who don’t understand anything about female anatomy.”

That last comment was accompanied by a glare for Pisces. He opened his mouth to protest and then wisely shut up.

“In case anyone’s wondering, I cannot shoot blood out of my crotch.”

“I did not wonder. But it was quite amusing to see your reaction when the child asked you the question.”

Erin glared over her shoulder at the adventurer. Pisces eyed her. There was something familiar—well, unfamiliar, really. He had never seen a Gazer of Baleros. Obviously, he knew the species, but there was only one famous member of them he knew by name.

…It wasn’t her. Obviously. Erin hadn’t mentioned a name when she wandered into the inn with her guest, but it wasn’t her. That would be unbelievable. Pisces was keeping his ear out for a name as Erin ranted. Just because it couldn’t be her.

“Who asks that? Honestly!”

The adventurer shrugged. She was looking around the inn—with more than one eye? Pisces’ brows snapped together as he stared at her.

“Is it strange that other species do not know much about Human reproduction?”

“Yes! No! I just—”

Erin threw up her hands.

“Forget it. This is my inn. I’ll get you some food. You can take a seat. Watch out for Pisces, the jerk over there. He steals stuff. Like my food.”

She glared at the half-eaten pastries on Pisces’ table, and the mage flinched. Then she stomped into the kitchen, leaving him alone with…with…

As the adventurer took a table near him, Pisces’ eyes widened as he noticed her armor and sword. Her armor didn’t look magical to him—which had made him certain it wasn’t her and she was some other Gazer. But that sword…

A claymore. And she was sitting there and staring at him…and now Pisces began to sweat. There was no way. There was no way one of the King’s Seven was in this inn.

Staring at him.

If Pisces had been eating food, he would have choked on it. If he’d been drinking, he probably would have sprayed it out his mouth and nose. Since he wasn’t doing either, he just stared, wide-eyed, at Gazi.

She smiled at him. And as the last voices of denial tried to obfuscate the truth from his panicking mind, the Named-rank adventurer looked him in the eyes and said the most robe-wetting thing Pisces could imagine.

“Greetings, [Necromancer].”



——



Erin rattled around in her kitchen, searching for something to serve up. She put a pot of pasta on the stove, poured out some blue juice—which Pisces had also helped himself to—and sliced up some bread with cheese and sausage. She realized she had no idea what Gazi or her kind ate, but she took it out anyways.

Pisces was sitting in his seat, looking meeker than Erin had ever seen him as he chatted with Gazi. Well, it was more like her asking questions and him replying quickly and nervously. Every few seconds, he would duck his head as if bowing.

Another person who recognized the famed adventurer.

“Here you go.”

Erin put the appetizers in front of Gazi.

“Let me know if there’s anything you want or can’t eat. Also, this is blue juice. It’s…it’s blue. But it tastes sweet.”

“This looks delightful. Thank you for allowing me to impose.”

“No problem. I rarely get visitors—”

Erin stopped as the door opened.

“I rarely get visitors.”

She was expecting the Goblins to enter or perhaps Olesm or even Pawn and some Workers. But instead the last person she expected walked in.

Relc.

He grinned at her and sauntered into the inn, spear over one shoulder. And he wasn’t alone. Four more Drakes—all guardsmen by the look of them—entered the inn, looking around warily.

Erin wasn’t sure what to say. She stared at Relc. The Drake met her eyes and then looked away.

“Hi, Relc.”

“Miss Erin. How’re you doing?”

“Good. Um. You brought friends?”

“For a meal. Mind putting something on for us? I’m hungry.”

“Of—of course.”

Flustered, Erin retreated into the kitchen to double up on her dinner preparations. She reemerged to find Relc and his friends sitting close to Gazi. Since she’d chosen to sit next to Pisces, there was an odd triangle in the center of her inn.

There was also dead silence. Awkwardly, Erin put out drinks and appetizers for the guardsmen and Relc. The other Drakes accepted her drinks and stared at the blue juice warily, but they were polite. Relc, on the other hand, was boisterous and noisy, thanking her and gulping down the juice quickly. He looked everywhere—except at her and Gazi, that was.

That was Erin’s first clue, but she was so busy running around the inn that she didn’t pick up on it. But as she began draining boiled noodles and mixing it with sautéed onions, she heard Relc get up and walk over to Gazi.

“So. You’re the famous adventurer entering our small city. Nice to meet you.”

Erin peeked her head out of the kitchen just in time to see Relc leaning over the table. He stuck out one massive hand.

“I’m Relc. A Senior Guardsman here in Liscor.”

Was it just her or was Relc…bigger than before? But Gazi just smiled up at him and shook his hand with her gauntleted one. She saw the muscles in his arm tense, but Gazi didn’t even blink as she shook his hand.

“I am Gazi Pathseeker, a travelling adventurer.”

“Who?”

Half the [Guards] looked at Relc, but the Drake pretended not to have any idea who Gazi was. Then he picked at his teeth with a claw.

“Oh, right. I think I’ve heard the name before. An adventurer? That’s nice. I thought about being one, but it sounded like too much hassle.”

“The life of an adventurer is not for everyone.”

“No, there’s all the dirt and mud and monsters trying to kill you.”

“It becomes occasionally unpleasant.”

“Right, right.”

Erin didn’t need any special skills to sense the underlying tension in the air. She saw the four guardsmen Relc had brought surreptitiously eying Gazi. Meanwhile, Pisces had scooted around the edge of the table to get away from the two.

Relc paused. Then he cleared his throat and eyed Gazi.

“So…mind telling me what you’re doing in my city? And, uh, how long you’re going to be staying around here? Not going to start a war, are you?”

Relc put a heavy emphasis on my. And he was leaning over Gazi in a not-so-subtle way. She didn’t seem to be bothered by his looming, though.

“I am merely exploring this continent. Rest assured, I mean to cause no disruptions while I am here. Reim is far from here, and my liege sleeps. I am…peaceful.”

She said that last part with an edge that made the entire inn go silent. Everyone looked ready to change the subject, especially because Relc’s last comment had gotten on Gazi’s nerves. Her large eye had narrowed ever-so-slightly. However, the big Drake nodded agreeably, or in a way that suggested agreeability while the tone of his voice was anything but.

“That’s good. I’d hate for any of that. It seems like every other day I have to deal with uppity adventurers causing trouble. It’s because I’m the highest-level member of the Watch, you know. All the guys always call on me for help.”

“It sounds like you have quite a tough job. I am impressed.”

Gazi’s voice was getting less and less friendly, and the notes of sarcasm…well, let’s just say that Erin was sensing a lot of it in the air. Relc flexed one arm and checked his bicep.

“Yeah, well, I’m just that good. [Spearmaster], you know? One of Izril’s few.”

“Indeed? A fascinating class. I myself have killed only a few.”

The room became quieter. Relc’s gaze snapped up, and he opened his mouth—but didn’t have a ready retort. Gazi seemed content with that. Relc scratched at his scales. His tail twitched a few times on the floor.

“Funny person. Anyways. So. What I’m saying is, I’d hate for your visit to get unpleasant, understand? This isn’t a good place for you to cause any trouble like the kind you get up to on your continent. You get—”

He was leaning forwards, and Gazi’s main pupil was narrowing to a fine point of annoyance as the [Guards] looked like they were bracing for the worst—which they had come here to avoid. Pisces was opening a window and peering outside. The air was turning bad—

And then Erin tapped Relc on the back of the head with a plate full of food. Hard.

“Ow!”

He turned and glared at her. She glared back.

“Oi. Stop harassing my guest.”

Gazi blinked. Pisces turned back, incredulous, and the Senior Guardsman looked at Erin. He glared—then ducked a second tap of the plate.

“I wasn’t—”

“Stop harassing. My guest. And sit back down. The food’s ready.”

Relc glared, but then he looked at Gazi—and the tense air was lost. He opened his mouth, closed it—stared at Erin, and growled. The Drake stomped back to his table as everyone sighed in relief. Gazi smiled at Erin, amused.

“Ah. Pasta? It looks quite delicious. Thank you, Erin.”

“Yeah, looks good! Have a bite and let me know if that’s an illusion.”

Relc began digging into his food the instant Erin left it at his table. After some hesitation, the other guardsmen did as well. Their wary expressions changed, and they soon began slurping down the noodles with good humor.

Pisces glanced around. Everyone else was eating—and Erin had even brought out some food for herself. But he was notably bereft of a plate and food.

“Ah, I believe you missed someone.”

“Did I?”

Erin eyed him balefully. She quite pointedly stared at the remains of her pastries on his table.

“Too bad. I guess I only have food for paying customers.”

He smirked at her.

“As a matter of fact, I believe today is the day I will pay off my tab. I have come into quite a bit of money as of late.”

“Really?”

Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow. Pisces pulled out a bulging pouch and showed her the contents.

“If you would observe.”

She stared.

“That’s a lot of gold. Hey! Did you steal that?”

Relc’s head rose, but Pisces looked insulted.

“Not at all. I merely performed a complex bit of magic and received remuneration. But I believe this is more than enough to pay off my tab many times over. Allow me to repay my debts in full and tip you for your time.”

He reached a hand into the pouch, but before he could take any gold out, the bag disappeared from underneath his hand. Relc pulled it away and deposited the bag on his table.

“Yoink.”

“Hey!”

Pisces shot to his feet. He grabbed for the money, but Relc raised the bag out of arm’s reach.

“Give that back! It is my property!”

“Nope! Confiscated by the City Watch!”

“Relc!”

Erin shouted at the Drake as Pisces grew redder and redder. The mage pointed a trembling finger at Relc.

“This is an abuse of authority! You have no right to steal my property—”

Relc grinned and waggled a claw at Pisces.

“I have every right. Or did you forget—you’re still wanted for all those thefts you did earlier. Scaring people—robbing graves—all of that should be nicely covered by this donation to the city, shouldn’t it?”

Pisces turned white and then red again with outrage. He spluttered, but didn’t really have anything to respond with except unrighteous indignation. Relc laughed at the mage—until Erin punched him in the shoulder.

“Ow. Have you gotten stronger?”

“It’s a Skill. Stop bothering my customers.”

“Fine. But I’m keeping this. Necromancer Pisces will be allowed back in the city, and we won’t stab him with all his fines paid off—but I’ll be watching him.”

“This is unjust—not right—”

Pisces clenched his fists, but Erin managed to get him back to his seat. He sat there in a huff, so she got him his own plate and food to calm him down.

“Honestly. I have a new guest here. Can’t you two behave for one night?”

“I am quite enjoying the spectacle. Do not mind me.”

Relc glanced sideways at Gazi. But then he ignored her and grinned at Erin.

“Sorry, Erin. I just wanted to say hi—after so long.”

She eyed him doubtfully.

“Really?”

“Really. I saw you just this morning and thought—well, it would be nice to see a friendly Human again. I had to deal with so many rude adventuring types and annoying mages each day.”

Pisces muttered something darkly. Erin shot him a look, and he shut up.

“I saw that. You were pretty impressive out there. I didn’t know you were that good.”

Relc grinned and put his hands behind his head as he leaned back in his chair.

“I try, I try. I’m not the greatest guardsman in the city for no reason.”

The four guardsmen stopped their meal and looked up at Relc. One of them snorted.

“Greatest guardsman? Sure, one who can’t even catch a Human Runner.”

The other three chuckled. Relc thumped back down on his chair and glared at them.

“I was wearing armor, and I had my spear, alright? She got lucky!”

Erin blinked at Relc as the other guardsmen made more jokes at his expense.

“You got outrun by a Runner?”

“She was really fast! I’ve never seen anything like it! Any other Runner I’d leave in the dust. But her—”

“Sure you didn’t lose while you were admiring her? Relc, the Gecko, lost to a mere Human. The mighty have fallen.”

“Too busy panting and not enough breathing while you were running?”

“Shut up! Don’t call me that stupid name!”

Relc glared at the two guards and threw a bit of food at them. That earned him another buffet from Erin. He glared at her, but then switched tone.

“—By the way, Miss Erin. You…wouldn’t happen to know any female Runners, would you?”

“Me?”

Erin blinked at him. Relc nodded.

“Sure, I mean, maybe, right? She was about your age.”

“What did she look like?”

This question came from Pisces. The mage was staring with some interest at Relc. The Drake frowned and shrugged awkwardly.

“She had…black hair. And she was—tall? Taller than Erin. And, uh, she was fast. Ring any bells?”

Pisces and Erin exchanged a look. Erin planted her hands on her hips.

“How am I supposed to know someone by all that?”

“Hey, I’m doing the best I can! All you Humans—you’re sort of similar. Anyways, I just thought you’d know her.”

“Because I’m Human? And all Humans know other Humans?”

Relc scratched at the side of his head.

“Um. Yeah?”

“Unbelievable.”

Erin began banging together empty dishes as she glared at Relc, and the Drake spread his claws out innocently.

“Hey, I just wondered—that isn’t the only reason I’m here! I was going to tell you about the thief in the city.”

“I already know about the thief in the city! And before you cause more trouble, it wasn’t Pisces. If he were the thief, you’d have caught him already.”

“Oh, we know that. The [Guards] would have spotted him entering the city, his stupid invisible trick or not. No, it’s probably just some Human. But I wanted to tell you to hire some protection around here. You got lucky with those Shield Spiders, but you’re not going to be lucky forever. Hire an adventurer already.”

“And pay them with what? Adventurers are expensive!”

One of the guards nodded.

“They are. Unless you know one personally, the rates they charge are far too high.”

Relc glared at the guardsman.

“Way to help, thick-tail.”

“I don’t have money for that. Unless—”

Erin reappeared in the common room. She smiled at Gazi, who was observing the argument with urbane amusement.

“Hey, Gazi, want a job? I can’t pay much, but I’ll feed you if you stay. I haven’t fixed up the rooms upstairs, but I could work on that.”

Relc, Pisces, and all four guardsmen started choking on their food. Gazi smiled and shook her head.

“As tempting as your offer is, I must refuse. But I believe you would be wise to invest in some form of defense as you are no warrior.”

“Once I have the money from the Shield Spiders I’ll see. But I’m not made of coins. I don’t have much gold.”

Pisces had been following the conversation while eating a huge helping of pasta. Now, a calculating look appeared on his face as he glanced at Erin.

“I might be able to help in that regard. Miss Erin, seeing as how my funds have been confiscated…would you accept—alternate forms of payment?”

She glared at him.

“At this point, as long as you pay me something I’ll be happy.”

Erin paused and hastily amended that sentence.

“But nothing icky. Or gross. Or—anything I won’t like.”

Pisces was still glaring daggers at Relc, but his eyes had lit up at Erin’s request, and he developed a knowing smile as he tapped two fingers together thoughtfully.

“I believe I have something in mind that may benefit us both.”

For some reason, that struck her as ominous—and she hoped Pisces wouldn’t cause much trouble. It was practically a given he’d cause some. Erin shook her head.

“If we’re done with talking about stuff I can’t afford—anyone hungry for something else? I have Acid Flies if you guardsmen want to try them. I know Relc eats them.”

The guardsmen exchanged a glance while Relc patted his stomach and tried to decide whether he was still hungry. Pisces hurriedly waved away the bowl Erin was offering.

Gazi raised her single eyebrow.

“Acid Flies?”



——



As Erin served food into the night, another girl pondered money and food. Unlike Erin, however, she was not immediately in possession of either.

She skulked in an alleyway, not trying to keep out of sight, but refusing to go out into the street. She wouldn’t be bothered even if she did. Some guardsmen were looking out for thieves, but they would never suspect her. Her attire, and more importantly, her bearing would immediately allay any suspicions to her guilt.

It was a shame and a disgrace, then, that she was forced to stoop to such demeaning lengths to survive. Theft was not befitting of her station, but the greedy merchants and shopkeepers were practically inviting her to take their goods. Besides, she had no coin to pay—not that she would in any case.

What was hers was hers. What was theirs was hers too, for that matter.

She’d made a mistake in travelling south. The city she wanted to travel to was Celum—not this—wherever here was. But the foolish caravanner had erred in giving her directions—she certainly hadn’t made a mistake! Now she was stranded and forced to even further depths to survive.

The girl’s stomach grumbled. She’d snatched some fruit earlier today, but the shopkeepers were on more of a lookout after a few days of her pilfering. She’d have to wait until late that night before she would be able to eat.

Soon. The girl licked her fingers and eyed the streets packed with hideous dog creatures and evil lizards. She just had to obtain enough coin, and then she would be away from this city filled with monsters. She just had to find Magnolia Reinhart, and then she would be welcomed with dignity befitting her rank and station.

Soon.

The girl’s stomach growled.





1.39 R


Running is a peculiar thing. And it’s one of the few things I’m qualified to talk about in any world. For me, running is as close to living as anything I do. I’ve studied it, practiced it, and made it mine. I can’t claim anything else like that.

But if running is pure, life is not. My body is not, for that matter.

Funny thing. Apparently, doing a record-breaking, thirty-mile marathon at my top speed has consequences, especially on a leg that just got healed. Suffice it to say that when the Horns of Hammerad caught up with me, they had to let me ride on the cart most of the way back to Celum.

Lying down in the middle of a field during a complete physical shutdown is actually pretty relaxing. I was so tired I didn’t even think about what would happen if a monster found me.*



*Not that it’s hard to think about. Apparently, the most common type of monster between the Human cities and Liscor are Goblins or a variety of avian species. I’m told that it would be far better to have the birds start eating me alive than suffer what male Goblins do to women. Next time I see one of those buggers, I’m kicking his head in.



Anyways, I’m just lucky that one of their team members, Hunt, had an appropriate tracking Skill or something. The Horns figured out what happened pretty quick when I stopped moving. Again, running a marathon on a light meal isn’t a good idea. I’ve tried ultra-marathons, and the key to those runs isn’t speed or even that much practice. All you do is take it easy and eat the entire way through. My kind of fun.

Where was I? Oh yeah. Running. Running is simple, but nothing else is in life. Even jobs involving running are way too difficult.

Case in point and why I’m still standing outside the Runner’s Guild rather than going in. I really don’t want to have to deal with the people inside—or anyone right now. In fact, the only thing keeping me remotely sane is the fact that my leg is better.

My leg is better. Four words, but it is all the difference in the world to me. From thinking I’d never run again to being able to run wherever I go?

Life is good.

—Unless of course you’re an out-of-work bum with no money who has to borrow from other people to survive. Dad always warned me this would happen if I didn’t shape up.*



*Of course, shaping up for him would be going into politics to kiss ass and tell lies 24/7, so he can go jump off a cliff.



I am quite literally penniless. Without the Horns of Hammerad, I wouldn’t even have been sleeping in the inn for the last few days, let alone eating. The reason for that is twofold. One—and again, this is my fault—I had to rest up from the stupid marathon I ran right after getting my leg healed. Even with a potion, there was still some rehabilitation necessary. That took two days before Ceria told me I was fine.

The other reason?

People.

Every head in the Runner’s Guild turns as I kick open the door. Just as quickly, most of the Runners look away.* Looks like half of the regular City Runners are here, plus a few people I recognize.



*It’s a great look, too. It says that they were clearly expecting someone, anyone besides me, but I’m here now, and they have to put up with me—mainly by pretending I don’t exist. Gods. This is why I hate looking at people’s faces.



Fals is talking to Garia next to the receptionist’s desk. Both notice me, but Fals keeps talking and Garia’s too moonstruck to interrupt him. And watching Fals from a corner of the room with her posse is another charming person of interest.

Persua.

Persua, Persua, Persua. Oh, how the mighty have fallen. If I didn’t know what Magnolia had told me, I still would have been able to tell something was wrong.

She’s still there, and Toriska’s sitting next to her—Claudeil might be around—but they look like they just were at a funeral. Persua’s sycophants aren’t here—all the Street Runners are normally missing—and she looked like she’s mad enough to cry.

Or run someone over with a wagon. But guess what? She’s not a City Runner anymore. In fact, I daresay Toriska’s look of wanting to throw up can only get better by the slack-jawed look of horror as I walk in.

Schadenfreude—a German word for enjoying the suffering of someone else—is my favorite thing right now.

When Persua sees me, I think she might actually faint. Her face doesn’t exactly have much color, but it drains of everything. She sways, actually sways in her seat, then begins to get up. But Toriska grabs her, and she hesitates—because I’m looking at her.

One move. One smart comment. Come over here and I’ll drop-kick you into a wall, Persua.

Am I going to go after her? I haven’t decided. I want to—and Persua looks for the door as she sees the look on my face. I hesitate—

I’ve still got to research what the punishment is for murder in this world. For now, I walk past her, just savoring her look of pure hatred.

The old Guildmaster is gone, but I never really knew his face. He’s not in the Guild, so I’m mostly focused on the front desk.

Fals and Garia are in front of me in line while the female receptionist deals with a kid trying to turn in a delivery. I normally don’t like to talk to Fals, but I am in the best of moods today. Besides, their conversation sounds interesting, so I put up with Fals long enough to listen in.

Garia sounds pretty upset. Both Runners are talking about something. Oh, right, that unmarked request she showed me two weeks ago. Seems like ages, now.

“…Third Runner we’ve lost so far. Pestrom.”

“What? No. He was an experienced City Runner—Level 19! I—I saw him just the other week. I thought you said no one went—”

“I didn’t know he was going. He talked about it, and I thought I talked him out of it. I guess he wanted to go in secret. We wouldn’t have known what happened if that [Shepherd] didn’t find his pack. Damn it. The Guild has to take down that request.”

Fals shakes his head. He looks genuinely angry and frustrated, but I’ve seen people wear perfect masks of emotion. Garia bites her lip.

“But he had an enchanted shortsword. He wasn’t an adventurer, and I know that’s not high-level compared to a Courier, not by half—”

He breaks in harshly, more agitated than I’ve heard him.

“None of that matters in the High Passes, Garia. The monsters there—you’d need fighting skills or insanely high levels—something above Level 30 probably to get out unscathed. I told Pestrom that when he brought it up and he told me…I guess he didn’t take me seriously.”

“You’ve got to do something about it, Fals. The reward’s gone up to eighty gold. Eighty! A bunch of the new Street Runners—they know it’s dangerous. But for that kind of money…”

Fals nods seriously. The Runner ahead of him is done, so he steps up to the counter and addresses the receptionist. Isn’t she the one I know?

“Stenei, don’t let any Runners take that open request. Spread the word to the other Guilds. Anyone who tries to take the High Passes request will die. We need it off the requests board.”

The receptionist—Stenei, that’s the one who often gives me deliveries—looks distressed. She clearly wants to help Fals out, and she doesn’t notice me as she replies.

“We can’t take it down, Fals. You know guild policy. Even with the new Guildmaster—it’s still a request.”

Fals nods. He leans over the counter and smiles charmingly* at the receptionist.**



*I assume it’s a charming smile. The problem is, I’ve seen so many charming smiles that this particular type of charm makes me want to break something every time I see it.

**Why are they always female? Oh, right. Feminism isn’t dead in this world; it probably never existed to begin with. Unless you count someone like Lady Magnolia, and she’s probably a rare exception due to her influence and wealth. Lovely.



“I know. But you could, ah, suggest to other Runners not to take the request, right? Believe me, it would save lives.”

“We already do that. I’m sorry about Pestrom, I really am.”

The receptionist and Garia both blush when Fals smiles, which only ticks me off more. Fals considers this.

“Then…what if this request just happened to be hidden below other ones on all the boards in the other guilds? It happens. Organization can be bad. It’s not against any rules, is it?”

She hesitates, then nods.

“I could ask about that. Let me just pen a [Message]…I think you’re right, Fals.”

“In that case, Garia and I will tell the other Runners to spread the word and let everyone know what happened to Pestrom. Thanks, Stenei, you’re a lifesaver. Literally.”

Fals smiles at her again. She blushes and starts fiddling with the delivery Seals on her counter.

“There’s no need for flattery, Fals. Anyways, don’t you have a lot of work to do?”

“I always have time to chat with a lovely lady. How’re the kids? Are you—”

Okay, interesting discussion I can deal with, but flirting/chitchat I’m not waiting around for. I don’t quite elbow Fals out of the way* as I step forwards.



*I don’t. Really. But I might have stepped a bit on his foot.



“Hey. Got a request for me?”

“Ryoka! You’re on your feet!”

Garia’s exclamation is so loud that anyone not looking at me already—I wince, but she sweeps me up in the biggest hug I can.

“Garia, put me down—Garia!”

To my huge annoyance, Fals joins in. Which makes Garia let me go—but he gives me a squeeze.

“Ryoka. It’s so great to see you! Your legs are healed—that’s incredible! That’s impossible!”

“Did Magnolia Reinhart do it like she said? She’s so generous!”

“Totally unlike the rest of her family, no matter what they say about her.”

Fals agrees. I have to actually put a hand on his shoulder and move him back. I think he’s trying to cop a feel.

“You done?”

He blinks, steps back, and flashes me a huge smile which goes unreturned.

“Sorry—I’m just so glad you’re well. Where did you go? Tenbault?”

“No, Liscor.”

“Liscor?”

“It’s a long story. I had help from some adventurers, not the Healer of Tenbault. They fixed me up.”

“Wh—really? There’s a high-level [Healer] in Liscor?”

“Something like that. Anyways, I just got back. Any interesting running requests around?”

Garia still looks delighted, and I have to admit, she was there for me.

“Ryoka, this is so great. You have to tell me what happened! Let’s get a drink—or visit my home! I mean—you’re well! And guess what happened to Persua and the Guildmaster?”

Fals hesitates and gives me the side-eye as I try not to smirk.

“Oh, yeah. Did you hear about that, Ryoka?”

“I may have. Persua’s a Street Runner now? Oh, that’s terrible. What happened? Did she get her just desserts? Or did someone realize she’s nowhere near a City Runner’s level?”

Out of the corner of my eye, I can see Persua freeze up and then turn redder with every word. Fals gives me a cautious look as Garia looks delighted—nervous, but I can see other City Runners snorting.

That’s right, everyone knows she did it and she’s being punished.

“So you did know what happened.”

Fals looks at me cautiously, and I give him a bland smile. Maybe he knows Magnolia’s to blame, but I didn’t make her do anything.

“I heard it on the way here. What, is it a problem? Us runners have to stick together, so if Persua needs some guidance—I’m sure I can give her tips.”

“Nah, Ryoka. I think it’s all sorted, right?”

Fals looks at Garia and the receptionist for support, but he doesn’t get more than a nod from the receptionist. Garia frowns—and I turn away from him and his shallow politics.

I plant my hands on the desk.

“Hey. I’m back.”

“Miss Ryoka! It’s wonderful to see you on your feet.”

Stenei smiles, and I hesitate. Wow. That’s a good act if it is one. I cough, embarrassed.

“Thanks…uh, Stenei, right?”

“Correct! How can I help you?”

“Um—contracts. Any big ones for City Runners? Or me specifically?”

I’ve heard that popular City Runners get special orders for just them, which is a sign they’ve made it. I’m mostly asking about emergency runs for adventurers, and I’m curious about what Fals and Garia were talking about.

Eighty gold coins? That’s a fortune! Is that related to…

“Actually, Miss Griffin, we have several open contracts for you.”

“Wh—really?”

Fals and Garia turn instantly. I blink in gratification—but it becomes a scowl as Stenei reads them out.

“They’re all for Lady Reinhart, and they list you as the only Runner. If you’d like to take a look.”

“Pass.”

Stenei looks astonished, and Fals’ mouth falls open.

“But Miss Griffin, these are urgent, and the Guild—”

“I don’t want a delivery for Magnolia Reinhart. Anything else for me not from her? No? Okay, I guess it’s regular deliveries, then.”

I shake my head. Stenei is trying to offer me the files she has.

“But Miss Griffin, it’s very, very lucrative and not that difficult—”

But I don’t want to talk to Lady Reinhart. Yes, she helped me, but she made me one of those offers I couldn’t refuse, and I did refuse it. She knows I’m from…somewhere else, and she scares the crap out of me, if I’m honest.

She’s dangerous, and I don’t want to talk to her, so I walk over to the cork board with the requests.

“Nevermind that. I’ll just take this one to Remendia and—”

“Miss Griffin, I am so sorry, but the Guild would like you to take Magnolia’s requests. Before you take another one.”

I stop, one of the pieces of parchment in hand. Stenei is standing there, and she looks uncomfortable as she shakes her head at me. I try to place the request on the counter. She doesn’t look at it.

“What’re you talking about? This one is open. I’m free. Put me down.”

“I can’t do that, Miss Griffin. The Guildmaster has orders—and the other Guilds do too. Here’s a quick delivery to Lady Reinhart. Sugar from the north. You can pick it up right in the city.”

She offers me a slip, and I look at it. Then push it back.

“No. Put me down for…”

Then I see the look in her eyes and realize I’m not arguing with her. All at once, my good mood fades. I look at Garia, who’s confused, and Fals, who’s staring at me as if he’s figuring something out. But I?

I just looked at the Runner’s Guild, and all my goodwill towards Magnolia fades away as I realize I’ve just been hit with the other side of her power and influence.

I have to deliver something to her? I look at the [Receptionist] and realize she’s telling the truth.

I am totally conscious of my empty money pouch. So that’s what her game is? She must have the entire Guild—is the entire network of Guilds under her thumb? And if she does, then how do I earn money?

“Miss Griffin? It’s not hard to do it. Just one quick delivery and I’m sure we’ll be allowed to give you all the ones you want.”

I stare at Stenei. Slowly, I look down at the request earmarked for me, and I can see Magnolia just waiting at her door. To invite me in. There’s no one pushing me into doing this. Magnolia never forced me to do anything…but pressure? I can feel it all over, and you know what?

I hate being pushed. So I push the paper back and step back. Instead of my smile, I’m scowling as I walk away from the desk.

“Yeah, I’m sure. Forget about it. I’ll try another Guild.”



——



Celum Runner’s Guild was the one I was just at. It’s not far to other cities—well, it is to run for no pay, but if you’re pissed and still enjoying running, like me, it’s not too far to spite a [Lady].

Of course, she probably has the power to make Ocre and Remendia not listen, so I’ll go to Wales the next day. It turns out ‘no money’ doesn’t cover a few silver coins in my pack. Enough for a crappy room, and if I eat from my stale rations, that’s breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

Wales is way far away from Remendia and Ocre. Fifty miles. She can’t…

The [Receptionist] at the desk knows me before I get to him, and he makes the other City Runners step back and offers me the only request he has—take a bunch of letters to Magnolia—

Every Guild I try is the same. I even try to pretend I’m not Ryoka, but it’s hard to change skin-tone and my height. Every single [Receptionist] has the same reply, and I’m about to kill everything.

No requests. No deliveries, and no pay. That’s the message I’ve gotten every day since I got back. I tried Runner’s Guilds in three of the cities around here, and all of them are doing the same thing.

In fact, they’re even making it so I can’t even go behind the Guild’s back and do unofficial work. Someone—and I bet it’s Magnolia—has decided to make the Runner’s Guild fulfill every request the moment it comes in. Even if it means they have to work every other Runner around the clock to get it done.

By the time I get back to Celum, it’s just to see how long they can keep this up. Half of the Street and City Runners in here are practically dead on their feet, but they’re still doing it. And it looks like they’ve called in the better City Runners like Fals to help out.

In short, I’m being shut out until I give into their demands. Which I won’t do. What they actually want isn’t hard—

But I’m not doing it. I don’t give in to bullies and peer pressure. And the innocent look the receptionist is giving me makes me want to punch her lights out.

Screw this. It’s time to get unpleasant.



——



When Ryoka Griffin came back to the Runner’s Guild, Stenei was still on duty. This time—Garia felt for her.

She was a nice woman and had really been upset when Persua got away scott-free. But Ryoka was so furious that it was written on her face.

Garia understood why and was just glad Persua wasn’t here today. Apparently, she was still running as a Street Runner—and furious—but she, Claudeil, and Toriska were in trouble, and everyone knew it.

The problem was—Ryoka seemed to be in trouble too. She stomped her way towards the counter, and she looked both hungry and tired. Garia had offered to let her stay at her parent’s farm—they lived just outside of Celum—but Ryoka had told her she didn’t want charity.

Garia watched Ryoka and sensed trouble. She didn’t have any particular skills like [Dangersense], but she didn’t need to. She knew Ryoka, not just as a friend but as a meteorologist knows weather. And if Ryoka were a storm, then she’d be a shipbreaking hurricane with lightning and hail thrown in for good measure.

The tall, barefoot girl leaned over the counter and glared at the receptionist. Garia felt for the older woman. Stenei was nice and helpful to everyone—she was just doing her job, even if Garia herself didn’t agree with it. It wasn’t her fault.

Then again, Garia wouldn’t have wished Ryoka on anyone when she was this angry. Maybe Persua. Ryoka’s bright green eyes flashed with annoyance.

“It’s been four days.”

Ryoka leaned over the counter and glared at the wilting receptionist.

“And you’re telling me that there are no requests? Except of course for Magnolia.”

Stenei opened her mouth, hesitated, and cast an imploring glance around the room. And who should be there except for…

This time, Garia wondered if someone had told him to be here. Because he just happened to have run in ten minutes before Ryoka, and that was despite doing seven deliveries in the last four days. He looked as tired as everyone else, but Fals stepped forwards and smiled at Ryoka in a way that made Garia’s heart beat faster. Ryoka turned her glare on him.

“We don’t want to get in your way, Ryoka—”

“Oh really? Then stop taking all the delivery requests.”

Fals scratched the back of his neck and smiled again awkwardly.

“We’d love to. Really. But Ryoka, it would be best if you took one of Magnolia’s requests first.”

Ryoka knew why, but she wasn’t in the mood to be helpful. She crossed her arms over her chest.

“Why?”

Another smile, slightly strained.

“Lady Magnolia’s refusing to take any other requests until you deliver something in person. That’s hurting Runners in every city around here.”

“So? Just do the deliveries yourself. She’ll take them if I don’t deliver anything.”

“We’d like to, really we would, Ryoka. But Lady Magnolia—no one tells her what to do, Ryoka. Take a look at her requests, won’t you? It wouldn’t even be that hard.”

From what Garia knew of Ryoka, an easy delivery would be even less attractive to her. But as Stenei held out one of the requests, Ryoka grudgingly stared at it. She curled her lip as she read the requests one after another.

“Hot peppers? Cabbages? She could get that in any market.”

“But she wants a Runner. You, specifically.”

“So until she gets one, I won’t get any other jobs, is that it? And I’m supposed to ask her to let other Runners take her requests, right?”

“We wouldn’t say that.”

“Oh?”

Fals seemed to choose his words carefully.

“If you’d—suggest to Lady Magnolia that she open up her delivery requests for every Runner, things would be—smoother.”

“Right. And you all get paid so everyone’s happy?”

Ryoka turned from Fals and stared around the guild. Street Runners and City Runners returned her stare countless times over. They were all silently watching Ryoka, and not with friendly expressions either.

“So until then, you’re all going to keep taking the requests.”

Fals shrugged ruefully as if caught out in a prank.

“We’re just doing our jobs, Ryoka. But you’re right. We’re working together on this, Runners and the Guild.”

“I don’t like being pressured. By anyone.”

Fals put a hand on Ryoka’s shoulder, making the other Runner instantly tense up. He flashed her a reassuring smile that made Garia’s stomach do flip flops.

“Ryoka, I completely agree with you. But please, look at it from the perspective of the rest of us Runners.”

He gestured to the other Runners.

“We’re a team. Okay, sure we don’t all get along, but if every Runner was out for themselves, it’d be a mess. We work together to tackle hard assignments, and we share the wealth so everyone gets ahead.”

He tapped his chest lightly.

“We’re Runners. We might charge high prices, but we get the job done! And if some people don’t like that, it’s because they don’t understand how tough our jobs really are. We risk life and limb to help others.”

The other Runners in the room warmed to Fals’ speech. They murmured agreement as he continued.

“So if we work together—if we help support each other—we’ll survive. Hundreds of Runners die every year, but the Guilds around here lost the least amount of Runners each year. We don’t take dangerous requests, and we team up if one of us is in danger. Sure, we might not earn as much as other Runners, but we know we can count on each other.”

Ryoka stared at Fals as the other Runners in the room cheered. Then, calmly and deliberately, she grabbed his wrist and plucked his hand off her shoulder.

“Nice speech. But you’re full of shit.”

Garia stopped smiling. The mood in the room froze over in a second. Ryoka stared around at the other Runners, unflinching. She looked back at Fals, who was staring at her uncertainty. Then she shook her head.

“You want to talk about Runners and preach about playing nice and sticking together? Fine. But leave me out of your little party.”

She pointed a thumb at her chest.

“I’m a barefoot runner. If I cared about what people thought, I wouldn’t run at all. Runners run. We deliver stuff. It’s a job, not a calling.”

She looked around again, and this time, she caught Garia’s eye for a moment.

“I couldn’t care less whether or not you lot like me. All I’m here to do is deliver stuff and get paid. I don’t want Magnolia’s stupid requests. If you lot want to earn favor with her, deal with it and leave me out of it. You should want me to not work with her. You think I’m trying to be her special, personal Runner?”

Fals spread his hands out helplessly.

“We’d like to believe you, Ryoka, but—”

“You think I’m lying?”

The edge in Ryoka’s voice made Fals hesitate. She took one step forwards, and he took one step back.

“I don’t lie. And I hate liars. When you make a promise, you keep it. When you speak, you look someone in the eye and mean every word. When I say I’ll do something, I mean it. If you want to do deliveries to Magnolia, take the damn requests. I don’t care about your politics.”

She poked Fals in the chest hard enough to make him take another step back.

“But if you get in my way, I’ll kick your face in.”

Fals opened his mouth, but this time, Garia grabbed him and pulled him away. Ryoka turned and glared around the room. None of the other Runners were willing to meet her eyes, but the feeling they gave off—

She stalked over to the request board and glared at it. Countless requests were listed, and not a one was for her.

There was no point to taking any of the requests, she knew. Even if she took one to the counter, it would be ‘miraculously’ already taken by another Runner. Or they’d refuse to recognize her effort or just not hand over the item she had to deliver. Even if she did the delivery, the funds were already deposited in the Guild, and they wouldn’t be released until Magnolia said so.

But—she had a thought. Wasn’t there one delivery that promised payment upon just getting to the person? One that no Runner could take. Should take.

Slowly, she investigated the board, removing requests and tossing them to the floor. The receptionist looked upset, but Ryoka dared her to object. She was looking for something…aha, just like Fals had asked. Right on the bottom.

Ryoka pushed back several requests and selected one at the bottom. She brought it back to the counter and handed it to the receptionist.

“This one. I’ll take the request for the High Passes.”

“What?”

Stenei blinked at Ryoka. She stammered.

“That one’s—but you can’t—”

“Not a good idea, Ryoka.”

Fals pulled himself gently away from Garia and moved in front of Ryoka again. His face was concerned.

“The High Passes aren’t a place for Runners or even most adventurers. Whoever put that request in doesn’t know what they’re doing. You shouldn’t take it.”

“Why not? There’s nothing else for me to do.”

Ryoka snatched the piece of paper back from Fals. Then she grinned.

“Unless you want to do it? I’ll follow you out to make sure you get it done.”

Ryoka smiled maliciously at Fals. He recoiled visibly, and she nodded.

“That’s what I thought. I’m doing the request.”

“You’ll die!”

Garia broke into the conversation. She flushed as all eyes turned on her, but she continued desperately.

“Ryoka, Fals is right. This is serious. Just take one of Magnolia’s requests! The High Passes—”

“I’ll survive. And I’ll complete the request even if it’s dangerous—not just for money. Apparently, that’s all Runners think about.”

Ryoka pushed Fals back and moved past Garia. She walked towards the door and stopped as another not quite barred her way. Persua.

She didn’t have her posse anymore, just Toriska and Claudeil. Both glared at Ryoka—but moved back as Ryoka’s hand curled into a fist.

“Persua. What’re you doing here? Don’t cause a scene.”

Fals raised his voice warningly, and Persua shot him a murderous look—but even the [Receptionist] was giving her a stare. She was red-faced, furious with humiliation, and, Ryoka thought, pinched for coin much in the same way Ryoka was.

The two were giving off sparks of hatred as they looked at each other, but Persua just tossed her head defiantly, ignoring Fals’ warning. Ryoka growled.

“Are you going to try and stop me too? Hi, Persua. I’d love for you to try.”

She looked at Toriska, and the girl shifted, a hand on her knife, but Ryoka was ready to punch. Persua’s look clearly said that she would like nothing better than to stop Ryoka, very painfully if possible…but she was standing behind Claudeil. She tossed her head as if her hair were a whip she meant to strike Ryoka with and sneered at her.

“I don’t need to do anything. You’re going to die in the High Passes.”

“Oh really?”

Persua’s tone dripped venom as she stared at the request Ryoka held. Contemptuously.

“Why do you think none of the experienced Runners take those kinds of requests? We’re smart enough not to risk our lives. We work together, not like you. You’ll die alone because you’re a fool.”

Ryoka nodded.

“You’re probably right.”

Persua blinked in surprise. Fals and Garia both stared at Ryoka along with the other Runners. Ryoka nodded and looked around the room again.

“If I do it your way, I probably would live long enough to retire. And maybe I’d even earn a lot of money, who knows? And if I kiss your ass long enough, maybe you’d even like me. If I were like the rest of you, I’d never take this request.”

She paused. Then she stared right back at Fals as she delivered her next line.

“Too bad I’m not a coward.”

Ryoka turned and walked out of the guild even as the stunned silence turned into shouts of fury.



——



I burn bridges as I breathe. It’s a talent. I’ve done it all my life, and I guess some things you just can’t change. Me and my big mouth. I got kicked out of one school for telling the principal what I really thought about him and the other—

They’re pissed. I can hear them yelling as I open the door. But I’m still smiling as I walk out the building.

One thing matters. One thing I cling to even in my darkest days. And that thing is integrity.

I am that I am. I am who I am. And I will not change for anyone except myself. Countries and cultures have their own laws. Society pushes and prods. Everyone has an agenda, and no motive is honest.

But I will bow to no one, especially not petty tyrants and liars like Fals. So I smile even as I sever ties. It may be that after this I’ll have to go elsewhere. Actually, not ‘may.’ Probably I’ll have to go or else have both legs broken this time.

How far does this group of Runners’ influence stretch? Well, no matter where I go, they’ll probably follow with rumor and lies. And it will be the same wherever I go.

What a crappy, small group of people. But what a wonderful world. If I need to, I’ll run to the very edges of it to find a place to be free.

If only everyone weren’t so petty. Well, those that aren’t are like Fals, and he’s worthless in his own way. But one of them—

“Ryoka—”

Crap. Garia’s the only person in that group worth a grain of salt. In her case, she’s probably worth a small mountain of salt. A hill, at least.

She jogs to catch up. Part of me wants to just keep walking and lose her, but even I’m not enough of a jerk to do that. Besides, she’s helped me so much that I owe her.

Garia hesitates as she slows to keep pace with me. I’m expecting her to defend the other Runners, but what she says next surprises me.

“I’ll keep them off your backs if I can. But they’re angry. Really, really angry.”

Huh. But maybe I should have expected that? Garia’s a stand-up kind of girl. That’s why I like her.

“They’re pissed off because I told them what I thought of their little cult?”

Garia hesitates.

“I didn’t—I don’t agree with everything Fals said, Ryoka, but I think he’s right in some ways. I think you’re right too, though. But you’re special. You—you can do deliveries by yourself, but some of us need to work together. Without the way the Guild does things, we’d get hurt way more often.”

“So we work together and drag everyone down who doesn’t agree with us, is that it?”

“I didn’t say it was perfect.”

“Pack mentality. And Fals thinks he knows everything. Are we dogs or gods?”

I thought that was clever. Or maybe it was stupid. Ouch. Garia’s look makes me feel like a complete jackass.

“We’re neither. We’re just people, Ryoka. And they’re not perfect, I know. But we can’t all be like you. Some of us have to work together to survive.”

…Damn it. This is getting painful.

“I’d like to be able to run like you. But I can’t. I’m too slow—I can only carry really heavy stuff instead of fast requests. If it weren’t for the way the Guild works, I wouldn’t be able to run.”

“…I know. But I won’t answer to them.”

Garia nods and then visibly braces herself. Here comes her pitch.

“Couldn’t you—couldn’t you just talk to Magnolia? Would it be that hard to just ask her…?”

In some ways? No. In some ways…

“In some ways, no. But in some ways, yeah. I’m not doing it either way.”

“I thought you’d say that. I told Fals you would.”

That bastard. He asked Garia to go after me. That manipulative—

“When are you going to go?”

“Now. Fals and the other Runners will probably try to stop me if I don’t. I know Persua will.”

“Okay, okay.”

Suddenly, Garia seizes me in a bear hug. And she’s—strong. Seriously, I think she’s going to break a rib. But then she pushes me back.

“Go. I’ll try and keep them busy for a little bit. And don’t die, okay?”

She turns and runs away. Slowly, by City Runner standards. Her posture really is quite bad. But she’s got heart, and that makes her the best Runner of the lot in my opinion.

Okay. Okay, that was—surprising or gratifying? Both. Also a bit humbling. But that’s right. I’ve gotta go.

Body check. I’m all in one piece, and I’ve got no injuries. Plus, since I haven’t been running any deliveries—I’ll call it at least 92% readiness. Perfect.

Motivation on the other hand—60%. Not good, not bad*. I’d like more, but even though I’m happy about being able to run, the amazement’s worn off.



*I generally think of a good run at anything about 80%. On those runs, I get into the zone and outperform my best. Obviously, I can still run really fast even when I’m not motivated, but there’s a clear difference between me when I’m feeling good and feeling bad. I could make 40% motivation Ryoka eat my dust and lap her if I were at 90% motivation.



Normally, that’s good enough for any kind of run. I could do a marathon like this, but as everyone’s said, these High Passes are different. I read up a bit on them with the local literature and—

Yeah, I might die. So I need to prepare a bit before I go, and quickly too. Fortunately, I’m in Celum, and even more fortunately, a certain Minotaur and a bunch of adventurers like to frequent the inn where I stay.

I pick up my pace as I head towards the inn. Garia might be able to slow the other Runners down, but I really doubt she’ll buy me more than a minute. I’ll make a pit stop at the inn and head out.

I’ve gotta hurry either way. It’s already midday, and the High Passes are far enough that I should hurry. I’ll be heading about halfway through the pass, so I do need supplies. And the Horns of Hammerad are the only people who’ll lend me stuff right now. Aside from Magnolia. She can go to hell along with the other Runners.

Damn it. I hate having no money.



——



Delays.

Ryoka tried not to grit her teeth. She hated delays. But explanations took time, especially when the ones she was trying to explain to weren’t that quick on the uptake.

Gerial blinked at Ryoka again. He, Ceria, and the male magician from the Horns of Hammerad had been eating lunch when Ryoka found them.

“Let me get this straight. You’re going on a dangerous delivery, and you need our help. And…you want us to take your belongings?”

Ryoka nodded.

“I’m going to be gone for at least a day, and the other Runners are probably going to trash my room while I’m gone.”

“Why would they do that?”

Ryoka shrugged.

“If Persua’s anything like the other girls I’ve known, that’s one of the first things she’ll do. Good thing I don’t have any shoes so she can’t fill them with thumbtacks.”

Again, Gerial blinked uncomprehendingly at Ryoka. But Ceria nodded.

“We’ll guard your things. Runners wouldn’t dare break into the Adventurer’s Guild, and we have our own storage space. But what’s this about help? We could escort you to the outskirts of the Passes, but Calruz isn’t here, and we’re understrength. And frankly, even at our best, we wouldn’t be able to go far into the Passes.”

“I don’t need an escort. I just need supplies. Healing potions—food—I’d buy it myself, but I don’t have any money. I’ll pay you back—double what I’m borrowing.”

Gerial and Ceria exchanged a glance. He nodded. She reached down below the table and opened a travel bag.

“I’ve got some healing potions right here. And a few dry rations. Enough for four meals.”

“That’s enough.”

“Then take them.”

Ceria pulled out several colored potions from her pack and handed them to Ryoka.

“These are better quality than you’d buy in the marketplace anyways. And you’ll need them.”

Ryoka hesitated.

“Are you sure? I can buy some—”

“I thought you were broke, Ryoka. We still don’t have any contracts, and Calruz isn’t back yet. Take the potions, Ryoka. If everything I’ve heard about the High Passes is true, you’ll need them.”

She was right. Ryoka nodded and silently began stowing the potions in her own pack. They were various hues of red and yellow, which Ryoka fastened to the outside of her pack so she could reach them quickly.

Yellow health potions didn’t feel right to Ryoka, but apparently, color didn’t really matter with most potions. Anyone could toss some food dye in a bottle to make potions whatever color they wanted. She supposed she should just be grateful health potions didn’t look like vomit. They tasted like vomit, but that was an entirely different matter.

Ryoka gently set her pack down on the floor next to Ceria’s.

“Thanks. Really.”

Gerial frowned, anxious.

“I’m still not sure I agree with this. Are you sure you have to do this? If the Runner’s Guild is giving you so much trouble, why not seek work elsewhere?”

Ryoka shook her head.

“I’m taking a delivery request. The reward is for eighty gold coins.”

All three adventurers whistled.

“Besides, if I take this request, I should be able to find work even if they keep blocking me. I just need the money.”

“We could lend you—”

“No.”

Ryoka stood up.

“I’ll get my stuff.”

Gerial stared helplessly as she walked upstairs to her room. The male mage patted him on the shoulder.

“Nice try. But she’s determined, isn’t she?”

“I never knew the Runner’s Guild was like that.”

Ceria shook her head.

“It’s the same in every guild. Ours is no different.”

“But—”

“Believe me, Gerial. If you look close enough, you see the same things repeated over and over. Humans are just like that.”

Both men looked sideways at Ceria but made no further comment. They stared at the stairs, silent in the general hubbub of the inn. They didn’t notice the girl Ryoka would have described inaccurately as sallow-faced sneaking up to the packs on the ground and swiftly rearranging the contents of both.

A quick few minutes later, Ryoka clattered down the stairs, nearly knocking a barmaid over. She had all of her possessions bundled in her arms, which she dropped on the table, nearly into the adventurers’ meals. Only a quick flick of Ceria’s wrist made the bowls and plates spin off onto another table.

“Here.”

Ryoka didn’t have much. Just some clothing, the magic bandages, and quite a few books that interested Ceria. She handed them all to Gerial, ignoring his blushes as he handled her underwear and equivalent to a sports bra. Then she paused and pulled one last item from her pocket.

“Take care of this. It’s very fragile.”

Gerial blinked down at the rectangle of metal and plastic in his hands. He had never seen anything like it—in fact, the smooth casing of the iPhone was completely, unsettlingly alien to him.

Ceria leaned over the table, suddenly fascinated. She and the other mage stared at the iPhone, astonished,

“What is that?”

“A device. I’ll explain it if I get back.”

Gerial held it at arm’s length.

“Will it—will it do anything?”

Ryoka shook her head, almost sadly for her. She touched the blank display regretfully.

“It’s broken. Just treat it carefully—don’t put anything heavy on it and don’t drop it.”

“If it’s broken, can’t you repair it?”

Ryoka smiled as if Gerial had told a very funny joke.

“No blacksmith or craftsman in the world could fix this. Trust me.”

“Then what about magic?”

“What?”

The male mage shrugged. He pushed his plates aside and picked up a faintly shining wand from the table.

“Would you let me try a spell?”

Ryoka hesitated. She was clearly torn, but then she nodded. Very slowly, Gerial handed the iPhone to the mage. He inspected it, running his fingers delicately across the touchscreen.

“What exquisite craftsmanship. I can’t detect any faults, but perhaps the issue lies within? Regardless, if it is not of magical creation—”

“It’s not.”

“Then this should work. [Repair].”

The mage waved his wand in a half-crescent and then tapped the iPhone. The tip of the wand flashed green as it touched the casing—

And then the iPhone’s screen flickered into life.

Ceria gasped, but Gerial’s reaction was even more dramatic. He shot backwards in his chair and crashed to the ground in surprise. Ryoka just stared. She stared and stared at the iPhone.

“Done.”

The mage smiled and handed Ryoka her iPhone. He stared with intense fascination at the brightly lit screen and then at Ryoka’s face. She was just staring at the iPhone in her hand. Staring and staring. But then she touched the screen and swiped it.

The display changed. Ceria and the mage were astonished twice-over, perhaps because they could sense no magic in the iPhone despite what was happening, but Ryoka just sighed. She turned to the mage.

“Sorry, I never got your name. Or maybe I forgot. What is it?”

He blinked and then smiled.

“Sostrom Reidez, at your service, Miss Ryoka Griffin.”

“Sostrom.”

Ryoka took his hand and shook it. She looked him in the eye.

“I owe you a great debt.”

Sostrom flushed lightly. He was in his early thirties or his very late twenties but unfortunately bald save for his eyebrows. He tugged his pointy hat lower on his head.

“It was nothing, really. Just a spell—”

“Not just a spell.”

Ryoka smiled at him. In the dim lighting of the inn, the iPhone’s glow lit up her face.

“Not just a spell. Someday, you’ll have to teach me it. If I can do magic, it would be just to cast that. And now—those assholes aren’t going to know what hit them.”

She turned and walked out the inn. The three Horns of Hammerad exchanged a glance and then rose to follow her. They couldn’t tell what—but something had changed about Ryoka in the moments after Sostrom had repaired her phone.

She seemed different.

She was different.



——



The iPhone is warm in my hand. It glows, and it makes the rest of the world seem different. The vivid colors of this world are quite, quite different from the artificial colors on the display. Both are brilliant in their own way.

It is fixed. Completely, utterly. The power bar reads 100% at the top of the screen. It’s the most glorious thing I’ve ever seen, bar my healed leg. And it is fixed.

I barely even feel my body as I walk outside. It feels as though I’m floating in a world of my own. Legs—fixed. iPhone—fixed. That’s all I need.

It’s time. Time to do what I’ve always wanted to do.

I step out into the middle of the street. No carts are passing by, and the pedestrians are mostly in for lunch. The others ignore me. Some stare at my iPhone, but I am just another Runner. That’s the way I like it.

Except of course that there’s always someone watching. Ceria, Gerial, and Sostrom have come out of the inn to watch me, but I can see several Street Runners casually lounging across the street. Ready to follow and intercept? Most likely.

And of course, I can’t see anyone else, but there’s a prickle on the back of my neck. I wonder if Lady Magnolia hires assassins or whether her maids have diverse skill sets. Or maybe it’s someone else. Who knows? Who cares?

Death. That’s what everyone tells me the High Passes are. And they’re right. It’s probably the most dangerous spot in this part of the continent. Even if it’s not certain death, it’s more than any sane person would want to risk.

But I’m not sane. Nor am I a normal person. Fear and exhilaration share equal parts in my heart right now. I want to see it. People tell me something is deadly and dangerous? I want to see it for myself.

Besides, what about this world is normal? What about this world is sane? Ever since I’ve come here, I’ve slowly pieced together the real shape of this crazy planet. From the local area, you might think it’s safe, a kind of medieval culture advanced several hundred years technologically thanks to magic. But it’s not. I know it.

In this world, the untamed wilds threaten to overwhelm the fragile peace of civilization. Though the thinking races of this world are numerous and possess technology and magic, their hold is tenuous. When the undead rise in numbers or the things living at the far edges of the earth venture out, nations burn.

The books I bought tell me different things from people. And that’s because books are written by individuals, while people are quite stupid. People only know what they want to know. The individuals who write books make it their business to know as much as they can.

Peace and stagnation. War that does not change. This continent is wracked by it. The Human nations fight against the non-Humans to the south, sending armies to fight and die in the Blood Fields each year. A genteel war to fight only in the same place? No. But the cost of a true war where cities fall is too much for either side at the moment. So it’s a long war of attrition and changing alliances. Meanwhile, the natural landscape and monster attacks are enough of a problem for the city-states either way.

But this continent is peaceful. Compared to some.

To the northeast, far across the seas, the Blighted King wages an eternal war against monster tribes and demons. His continent has seen war for five thousand years, and his is one of the last nations not consumed. Nations send their own armies to support him, but his people have never known peace. Their heroes and soldiers are some of the finest and the most impoverished. He fights a daily war that he is losing over the course of years.

In the south of the world lies a continent called Chandrar. The largest desert in the world fills the center of that landmass, and no one lives there; all the countries and kingdoms surround that death zone, fighting for moisture and land in the livable spaces.

Chandrar has more dead nations than any other continent. Poverty is ever-present there too, but the nations still fight over what’s left like starving dogs. They used to be unified, but the kingdom which united another continent collapsed and now everyone’s worse off. A classic story.

Once, a warlord unlike any other managed to conquer the whole damn continent and was sweeping through this one when his empire suddenly collapsed. None of the books said why this was. This king did not die—nor was he apparently harmed. But he abandoned his dreams of world conquest. Now he sits in his crumbling kingdom as other countries pick apart his once-great empire. The King of Destruction sleeps.

The continent north of this one is filled with Humans. Terandria. They have subjugated their lands and created a peaceful continent, or at least one with fewer monsters. But despite that, they fight amongst themselves in a never-ending battle for supremacy. Their royal families hold mighty artifacts in their vaults but fear to use them in case of mutually assured destruction. It sounds like a bunch of kingdoms of inbred, infighting [Kings] and [Queens]. Europe, essentially.

Other nations. I have read of them. The western oceans contain the last continent, a jungle in the south, plains and then tundra to the north. The species there are—odd—but Baleros is engulfed by endless low-level conflicts that give rise to an entire culture of [Mercenary] companies. Four of the biggest companies practically rule the entire continent, and a lot of the wilds of Baleros lie unexplored.

A few other great powers exist, like an archipelago called ‘Drath,’ ruled by, you guessed it, an [Emperor]. Few nations have no monarch. Even Calruz’s homeland, called the House of Minos, another archipelago, has a Minotaur King.

Apparently, they fight against some kind of eternal threat similar to the Blighted Kingdom of Rhir. Some sworn enemy of the world is enough to keep nearly a million Minotaurs in a constant state of war and peace. Well, a million is the number the book I read touted, but it was written using information decades old. But the Empire of Minos has its own strange culture Humans and other races don’t want to learn about for some reason.

More continents, more islands and places my books could only hint at, that once existed or have changed—but I want to visit more than anything.

An icy arctic shelf with icecaps taller than skyscrapers in Terandria’s north. The ‘end of the world,’ The Last Tide, which has killed more ships and taken countless explorers and armies, never to return.

A legendary isle where mages gather to learn spells and where anyone is free to study, Wistram, the Academy of Mages. Even continents that once stood that are now buried in the ocean, cities of people who live under the water, Drowned Folk.

These are the legends and wonders that shape this world. Yet here I am, in one of the most boring places in one of the safest parts of the world, and people warn me about the High Passes as if they’re dangerous? For all the unrest, this is an era of peace. All the terrible battles happened long ago.

The gods are dead, and no one tells me who these gods were or how they know they’re dead. Because I knew to look for them, I found hints of the Elves, but no book of nations and countries lists their race anywhere. They’re long dead, and half-Elves are the only species around who bear their legacy. The Dwarves are hidden in the heart of mountains that make the Himalayas look like foothills.

The age of great wars, myth and legends has ended. Magic endures, but those who wield it have faded. Nations fight in brush wars, but the balance of power has been kept. There’s a marker for this era: The Waning World, it’s called. Well, the book claims that Gnolls named it that. Do Gnolls get to decide what each era is called? I like the name.

This is not a time of heroes. And that’s fine with me. I am no hero. But I want to see what remains. I want to see what wonders still lurk in this world. For I am certain: they are legion.

The world I’ve seen so far—the cities and people here—are so petty. They care only about their small struggles and what they think of each other. Magnolia, for all her cunning, is a small landowner in a tiny part of the world. And that is wonderful.

The worst thing that ever happened to my world was globalization. Once we reached the ends of the earth, we lost our curiosity, our drive to grow. But I feel it. It calls to me.

Adventure. Pure and simple.

I can see the other Runners watching me. But I don’t care about them. The iPhone is warm in my hand.

I tap the screen, and it lights up. Gerial and the other Horns of Hammerad gasp again, and even Ceria looks amazed. But to me, it’s like looking at an old friend.

An old friend. An iPhone 4, to be exact. Black, sleek. It used to be full of scratches and dents where I dropped it, but now, the plastic shines in the daylight. It looks like it just came out of the box.

Slide to unlock. No password. I should probably put one on, just in case. If I lose my iPhone, I deserve to let it get hacked. Not that there’s too much on there. A few books, saved files, an empty contact list, basic essentials like Safari, which is useless here…only one thing takes up nearly all 32 GB on my phone.

Music.

It’s all there. Thousands of songs, some great, some only mediocre. But every song I ever liked and bought—or more often downloaded illegally—is here. All here.

I can’t help it. I start laughing. Laughing for the pure, joyous salvation of magic. It’s given me everything I’ve ever wanted. My wings, and now my music. With it—with this—

I am free.



——



Ryoka stared down at her iPhone and then began to laugh. For her, it was joyous. But for everyone else—

Gerial and Sostrom edged away from Ryoka, and the other people on the street took one look at her and then hurried away. Ceria could only smile in astonishment.

“What an evil-sounding laugh.”

Perhaps Ryoka heard that, because she stopped. She reached into her pocket and drew out two earbuds. To the confusion of everyone watching, she plugged them into her iPhone and then into her ears. Then she turned and began to jog.

The Street Runners left their positions and began to follow, but Ryoka’s jog turned into a fast run in an instant. She disappeared from view even as the Horns of Hammerad watched.

“What do you suppose that device was? Did it resemble anything you saw in Wistram Academy, Ceria?”

Ceria raised an eyebrow at Sostrom.

“I’ve no idea. Besides, that thing had no magic in it. How strange. But I can see why Magnolia is so fascinated by Ryoka and—”

A thought occurred to Ceria. She reached into the pack she’d brought with her, now stuffed with Ryoka’s clothes, and began pawing through it.

“And—”

Ceria paled as she checked her pouches and pulled out a blue potion.

“Oh no. How could this happen? I swear I checked to make sure—”

“What? What is it?”

She turned to Gerial and Sostrom and showed them the potion she was holding.

“The healing potions I gave her—half of them were mana potions.”

They stared at her in horror. But even as they turned to shout, Ryoka was long gone. She was running. And she couldn’t have heard them in any case.

The music was about to begin.



——



Ryoka sensed the other Street Runners trying to keep up as she raced through the streets, dodging past cursing pedestrians and keeping well away from any carts, wagons, or larger vehicles. The paved stones felt wonderfully smooth underneath her feet.

Hm. The Street Runners were keeping up well. Only to be expected since Ryoka had to dodge too many things for her liking. But they weren’t smart. They didn’t know how to shift their weight to get the best out of every step and how to turn corners quick. They were just talented amateurs or, in most cases, just amateurs.

Ryoka reached the gate and sensed more Runners following her. City Runners. They were faster. She wondered if Persua were in the crowd trying to catch up. Well, they could prepare any kind of trap, but they’d have to catch her first. She was already running faster than normal, but it was time.

She could barely contain the excitement burning in her chest. Time. After so long, the mere thought of it was giving her goosebumps. Ryoka ran while keeping the iPhone in her hand. She flicked through the screens, selected the Music app. Then—it was at the top of the screen, a pair of crossed arrows.

She hit the button.

Shuffle.



——



I’ve run races, marathons, even an ultra-marathon once. I’ve run through snow, rain, hail, through thunder and lightning and even hurricanes. But I’ve never run like this.

Motivation. After so long of running in silence, the instant I heard the guitar’s first chords, my legs churn into overdrive.

“Sweet Home Alabama” thunders in my ears as I race out the city. Lynyrd Skynyrd’s lyrics blast through my ears as I pick up speed, shedding Runners left and right. The music’s not the best for running—but far from the worst. And it’s not the song that matters so much right now. It’s just the music.

Running. Music. Running music. The greatest thing ever to be invented in the history of ever. It takes away the pain of running and puts me right into the zone. I could run barefoot on nails and—

That’s a terrible idea. But I could probably dodge highway traffic and run a six-minute mile forever while listening to music. How is it that it can take away your focus on running and at the same time focus my mind even more on running? I don’t know.

It’s just music.

Sweet home Alabama, where the skies are so blue. I’ve always wanted to go to Alabama just to run around listening to this song.

Motion. A bunch of Runners are ahead of me. Fals and some of the highest-level City Runners. They want to cut me off, and they’re sprinting as fast as they can. And it might be a skill or a Skill, but they’re quick enough that they could actually catch me.

On any other day.

I don’t even have to look down. I’ve memorized the exact placement on my iPhone so that my fingers can immediately find the next button. It’s not that I don’t love a good country rock song, but if I’m going to go full-throttle, I want faster music. The shuffle god works his magic. And then I hear it.

Oh. Hell yeah. I can tell when the first bell tolls which song it is. “I Will Not Bow” by Breaking Benjamin. Then the guitar and drums blast in, and everything disappears. I run like I’ve never run before.

I catch one glimpse of Fals’ stunned face before I blow by him and the other City Runners. They can’t even turn fast enough to see me. The landscape blurs and disappears underneath my feet. I’m running just as fast as I did when I got my leg back. Fast as that. Faster.

I am heavy metal. I am death and rock. I am running, and running becomes me. I will not be stopped.

The vocalist screams in my ears, and I run on. The High Passes await. A mysterious delivery request, deadly monsters, and mystery. I leave behind intrigue, angry Runners, and petty infighting with every step. Onwards, ever onwards. I run with music taking away the pain of the world and run to keep death from catching up.

At last.

I am free.





1.40 R


I slow down after about twenty minutes of sprinting. Not because I don’t feel like running faster, but I know I’ve got a long way to go.

So I reduce my pace from record-breaking speed to a sustainable jog. A bit faster than normal, but I can’t help it.

I’ve got the music.

Currently, I’m running to the not-so-fast-paced song, “Heathens” by twenty one pilots. I love it. And the movie it was written for—Suicide Squad—I really wanted to watch it, even though I thought it might not be as insanely horrific as I hoped. PG-13? Really?

Great concept, though. It came out just a month before I came to this world. I always meant to see it, but I kept putting it off. Guess I’ll never see it now.

Hm. Thinking of home or the world I came from hurts a bit. But it’s more like a thorn that I’ve pulled out of my foot* a while ago. It still hurts, but the place I’ve come to makes up for it. In some ways. In other ways, it’s just as crap, but at least—



*More than once. Painful, and way worse than stepping on glass. Actually, barefoot runners rarely step on glass. Everyone thinks we do, but if you were running around barefoot, would you step on glass? Seriously. Think about it. It’s not hard to spot most of the time.



Yeah—At least the view is great.

An open landscape of rolling hills and an open dirt road stretches out before my eyes, punctuated only rarely by inconveniences like rocks or, in the distance, small buildings. It’s the most glorious sight for a runner. I can see wavy stalks of flowering plants in one field, bright and colorful. I’m assuming they’re there for harvest.

Even the occasional animals sometimes delight, like the little rabbit with faintly purple fur that sprints out, sees me coming, and then blinks out of existence. Did it teleport? I look up, and a bird that glows flashes across the air, almost as if it’s laughing at me for being so slow.

A Creona Flashbird—rare and prized around these parts. And up, higher and higher, lies my destination, that mountain range that ascends into the sky. Epic and wonderful and free of people.

Actually, the geography reminds me a lot of Mongolia. I used to stare at pictures of the endless grasslands there and dream of running by myself for days. But this place, this makes Mongolia look like a cramped hipster coffee shop in the middle of a city.

This world is big. And even that word is too small to encompass the land around me. Endless is probably a better word for the scale of this planet. Even the sky is larger, or at least that’s how it feels. But how would gravity work if that’s the case?

Magic. Probably. Anyways, I’m not thinking about this again. Focus, Ryoka. Think about your job.

Hm. Let’s see. I’ve ditched Fals and the rest of the jackasses that call themselves Runners. That’s a good first step. Now, Celum is a ways away from the High Passes. Only two cities are actually in the High Passes, Esthelm and Liscor, although they’re in the safe route with roads and far fewer monsters, not the untamed wilds.

In any case, I can relax. I’m running at a quick pace, but it’ll take a few hours to get there. So I relax and let my mind wander.



——



Run. Run and eat. Run and stop to pee. Run and slow to a walk for a while. Normally, I’d be busy thinking all this time, but instead, I just listen to music. It’s been so long every song is fresh and amazing to listen to.

In between that, I do stop the music to concentrate. As a Runner, it’s important to be aware of my surroundings. And a few things have been bothering me.

Firstly, I know the local landscape. Around here—around most of the northern part of this continent, the geography alternates between relatively flat land and the mountainous passes that lead to the southern continent. True, there are heavily forested regions further northwest, and from what I’ve heard, several large rivers that create a transportation network that makes Runners slightly obsolete. But that’s north, and I haven’t travelled that far.

Those Five Families I heard about are largely in the north—Magnolia’s the one too far south. Five houses of influential people doesn’t sound fun—but they have gigantic pastures of land I want to see. That forest? Apparently it was one of the last ‘great forests’ of the world, the Vale Forest. Sounds like fun—if not for my feet.

In the same way, I haven’t gone past Liscor to the south. That’s where the landscape gets nasty apparently. What people call the Blood Fields separates the north from the south, a kind of battleground that changed the very ecosystem. No wonder Humans don’t go down there. But it is home to the largest plains in the entire world where Gnolls live…

Where I’m running—the plains north of the High Passes—is one of the better parts to be in this region. The only threats around here are Goblins and a few weaker examples of monsters. But the closer I get to the High Passes, the more likely I am to run into something nasty. Exactly what monsters live in the mountains I don’t know, but they make the ones living in the Human lands look cute by comparison.

That’s the first problem. The second is that there are a bunch of fireflies following me.

Fireflies. Or—animated sparks of light? That’s the closest thing I can think of to describe them. It’s like—well, it’s like some kind of magic maybe? These…symbols keep flashing around my head, and I swear I can hear something whenever I look at these flashes of color that are whirling around my head. They keep trying to get a lock on me, but whenever they do, I speed up and lose them.

It’s probably some kind of curse. I don’t know if Persua has enough money to hire a [Mage] or if it’s possible to call down lightning on me, but I’m not dealing with whatever it is.

Keep running. I just wish whoever’s casting the spell would give up. It’s getting annoying. But I can turn up the music, and the garbled speech tunes out. Okay, what else?

I’ve got the details of the open request memorized and written down, for all the good that does me. It’s a request to deliver a package, but what the package might be or who’s requesting it isn’t clear. That’s the uncertainty of an open request and the reason why few Runners want to accept them. But the pay’s extraordinary, so that’s enough.

With open requests, I go to the location marked and I’ll receive my pay in advance. The sender tells me where to go, and we can negotiate a second fee, or I tow the delivery back to the Runner’s Guild where someone else can finish the job.

It’s not the greatest system, but it works when dealing with areas where identity and safety can’t be assured. Apparently, all deliveries used to work more or less like this, but the new system in the Runner’s Guild is safer for Runners.

I could be walking into a trap. Please don’t let me be walking into a trap.

Anyways, I’m looking for a cave down the main road* of the High Passes. It will be marked by a yellow banner of some kind.



*I use the word road only in the loosest sense. Rather than a road, you could call it the only vaguely flat terrain that winds through the mountains and through stone passes and the network of caves.



That’s all I have to go on, and I’m only a few miles away from the High Passes. Now I can see the mountains looming ahead of me, rust-colored rock towering in the sky. And they are huge. I can look up and not even sense a mountain getting smaller before it disappears into the foggy, clouded sky overhead.

A mountain taller than Everest? Perhaps not, but it’s probably close. And that’s just one mountain of the countless ones here. Together, they form an impenetrable barricade, save for the small gap that winds through the passes.

Well, a small gap here is a road about as wide as two football fields placed side by side. And again, if it’s a road, it’s the most crap road in the world. This one has boulders scattered throughout it taller than fully grown oak trees. But it is semi-flat, and that’s enough.

I really hope I don’t cut my feet on the rocks. I should be fine; my calluses are really tough, but—

Something flashes past my face and hits the grass. Instinctively, I duck, and that’s when I see them. A horde of little green men, except these ones ain’t aliens.

“Shit.”

I guess listening to loud music really isn’t a good idea when you’re supposed to be watching out for trouble. That’s probably why I never noticed the group of Goblins until they were right on top of me.

They spread out around me, a mob of Goblins. Not too many, at least by their standards, but a lot. I can’t spare time to count. Twenty—thirty of them? Some have bows, like the one who just shot at me, but most are carrying weapons. Rusted swords, daggers, and even a buckler or two. But they’re unarmored, ragged.

They could dice me up in seconds. And they’ve got me flanked this time.

This is bad. But I raise my hands and make fists. I haven’t needed to fight before, but it’s not because I couldn’t. And today, I’m at the top of my game.

The Goblins grin. They only see a Human female, alone, separated, and unarmed. Not a threat. That’s fine by me. I see a bunch of guys who I can hit as hard as I want and who have way less muscle and reach than a normal group of thugs. And I know kung fu*.



*I do not know kung fu. I practice a version of Muay Thai geared towards MMA, although I didn’t do any actual mixed martial arts. Damn overprotective parents.



Widen my stance, tilt my body forwards and down, hands up and loosely clasped into fists. I put more weight on my front leg. I bounce up and down, ready to move at a moment’s notice.

I’ve been in fights. Not many; definitely not the kind of straight up bloodbaths you hear about in inner cities, but I’ve had to defend myself more than once. More than that, after my first fight, my parents had me learn martial arts to defend myself. I studied how to fight.

The Goblins are still spreading out around me, waiting for one of them to make the first move. Maybe they can tell I’m not like a normal girl because I’m not screaming or trying to run. Instead, I dodge back and forth, keeping my distance, trying not to let them get my back.

One of the rules of fighting a group is never to let them surround you. Lead them on in a line if you can. Second, never let an opportunity to attack slip by. Be sure you know when they’re about to come at you.

And striking first is good. So as the first Goblin decides it’s time to get the ball rolling and darts forward with a shrill cry, I step forwards.

Step in, rotate hips, and put all that motion into a punch. I catch the Goblin in the head right as he charges. It’s a satisfyingly solid punch, and I feel it go right through the bugger.

He folds up. No confused blink, no comedic pratfall. The Goblin just falls down and doesn’t get up. That’s what a proper punch does.

The other Goblins blink in consternation. That shouldn’t have happened. But they’re fighters. They look cute in an evil sort of way, but they’re all killers. Probably even normal street thugs aren’t as vicious as these guys. So when they see the first guy go down, seven come at me at once.

I back up. And then I turn and punch. Not to really hit a target, but to get the other Goblins behind me to back up. They were about to rush me, but they flinch away, and I dash past them. Okay, now my back’s safe. So I turn and let the others come at me.

A line. They’re doing the stupid tactic of rushing me without doing it all together. So I jump forwards, punch once, twice. Two Goblins fold up, and I hop back, letting them trip up their friends.

A Goblin leaps over his friends, and in the air I hit him in the stomach. He starts throwing up even as he lands. Another comes around the side, and this time, he’s smart enough to start swinging before he gets to me. I wait. Swing, swing…

As his knife goes too far left, I step in and hit him. I’ve got a longer reach if I extend, way longer than his short arms. Another unconscious Goblin.

The last three Goblins slow, but one of them is dumber than the rest. He keeps coming, and I decide to get fancy. Instead of punching, I back up and then do a roundhouse kick.

Muay Thai is a martial art that emphasizes really strong kicks. And one of their famous kicks is the roundhouse. Naturally, it was one of my favorite moves to practice.

The Goblin lets me set it up. He’s watching my hands, so he never sees my leg flash up. I can kick nearly as fast as I punch, and I catch him right across the head. Short as Goblins are, my kicks are more head level than at their side or chest like normal Humans.

My foot connects with his head, and I feel his flesh squish. And then I feel something give way and hear a crack. The Goblin tumbles, flies, and rolls to a stop in the grass. He doesn’t move. And my heart stops.

The other Goblins look down at their fallen friend and up at me. I know I should be watching to see if they’ll rush me, but my eyes are fixed on the Goblin. I—I didn’t mean to hit him that hard. Not in the head.

He’s too still. The fallen Goblin doesn’t even twitch. He—he’s—

He’s dead. I killed him. I’ve never killed another creature before. I’ve hunted for fun, but I don’t shoot animals. Even in fights, I only broke bones. I don’t kill.

But he’s dead. And it was so quick, too.

I stare down at the Goblin and then see a black shape speeding at my head. I duck, and the arrow misses my cheek by a few inches. The Goblin archer lowers his bow and shouts something at his friends.

I—what do I do? The Goblins are moving again, trying to surround me. They don’t want to get close this time, but the archers are all pulling out their short, stubby arrows.

I need to run or fight. I’ll—I’ll blitz the Goblin archers, hit them, and then run for it. I start weaving and dodging left and right, giving them less of a target. I just killed—

The archer in the back, the one who shot twice at me, is their leader. I need to hit him and maybe the Goblins will give up on me. He’s got a few Goblins in front of him, but if I rush the group…

The Goblin pulls an arrow and sights at me. My body tenses—

And the Goblin archer’s head disappears. Not disappears in a cute way like he ducked down or he fell over. No. The entire neck and skin pulls away as a massive jaw closes over his head and rips his head clean off.

“Holy—”

The Goblins turn. One screams, raises his sword, and a claw cuts his stomach open. I back up. The Goblins back up. The gigantic wolf casually grabs another Goblin, bites down, shakes him around, and tosses him to one side like confetti.

A wolf. A huge, giant wolf. Not the kind from my world; a proper, Big Bad Wolf of the plains, nearly as big as I am. Bigger. He’s got more mass.

The wolf sniffs and eyes me. The Goblins are already running, but he’s not interested in them. He’s looking straight at me.

Calm down*. It’s not the same as a Dire Wolf from George R. R. Martin’s books. Those things are big as horses, right? This one’s—this one’s only twice as big as a normal wolf. Only twice.



*Calm down! Don’t panic! Holy gods, it’s huge!



It has rust-red fur. Why the hell—is it because of the blood? It paws the ground, sniffs again, and then slowly begins to circle me. It’s so big, and unlike the Goblins, I can see muscles rippling under its fur.

No time to run or even think. I raise my hands again. Wolves can outrun Humans, just like bears. And running makes me prey. I need to get it to back down or leave.

“Bring it.”

Trouble is, this wolf isn’t like normal ones. Wolves from my world don’t hunt Humans in general. But this one just ate a Goblin’s head. So maybe the ones here have a taste for humanoids.

It sniffs at me again. And then the wolf lowers its head. Oh shit. It’s gonna—

I barely see the wolf move. It launches at me, and I throw myself sideways. The wolf lands, turns, and I run forwards and punch it in the head.

No thinking. Just action. I’ve practiced these moves enough that my body overrides my panicked brain. Punch, punch, step back. The wolf snaps at me and I twist. My leg flashes up and sideways and catches the wolf in the wide of the head. A solid strike.

Roundhouse kick. I once watched a documentary about the power behind Muay Thai kicks. Getting hit by one by a world champion is like being hit by a car at 35 MPH. Well, I’m not the world champion, but the giant wolf still blinks and shakes its head. It wobbles on its paws, and I step forwards.

Another kick that’s illegal in MMA is hitting your opponent with your knee when he’s down. That’s a lethal move. Actually, all of Muay Thai moves are meant to kill, but knees and elbows are really nasty. I was taught a hundred times not to hit anyone in the head with a knee unless I wanted to kill them.

I just hope my teacher wasn’t exaggerating. I run forwards and knee the damn dog as hard as I can in the face. I heard something crunch. It feels like my knee.

The wolf blinks, backs up a few steps, and then snarls.

—Ah.

It’s funny. Back in my world, I thought I was pretty hot stuff. Certainly, I’ve never lost a fight with the other stupid kids my age. And I was talented.

I practiced in an actual contact gym, and I got good enough that my instructor said I might have a future in the ring…until my parents vetoed that idea. At that level, I could teach martial arts myself if I didn’t want to be sexually harassed and laughed at all day long. Reaching that level at my age is extremely rare*, and I know how to fight.

I’ve been in street fights, or at least, school fights and being jumped while running. There’s a difference between knowing martial arts and having a black belt at a McDojo**.



*Having a personal gym and near-perfect memory helps, though. Also, parents who let you practice martial arts as much as you want if it keeps you out of trouble.



**McDojo. Great term. It describes every cafeteria and gym for kids who just want to show off rather than learn actual techniques. I kicked a black-belt ‘expert’ once and broke two of his ribs. Good times.



I know how to fight. And even if I’m not nearly as good as someone who walks in and out of brawls or has trained longer, I’d put money on me beating most of the adventurers below Gold-rank. Because they’re Human, or humanoid. And martial arts don’t exist in this world, at least as far as I know.

But martial arts from Earth weren’t designed to fight monsters.

The wolf I just roundhouse kicked and kneed in the face gets up and shakes itself like nothing happened. Then it looks at me and growls. Its nose looks wet, but I don’t think I hurt it much. In fact, I think I just pissed it off.

It advances fast. I punch, but the wolf snaps at my hand, and I nearly lose it. It dashes around me, and I spin to keep up. It’s so damn quick!

The wolf snaps at my leg, and I back up, kicking. But it’s too fast, and the fur on the wolf is like armor. It rushes me again, and this time, I can feel its hot breath on my front as I leap back.

Muay Thai was never meant to fight a creature that fights with its teeth. I try to get my distance, but the wolf advances.

Fuck. It’s not gonna let me get away. And I don’t know what to do. If I were faster, I’d try to poke its damn eyes out. But the wolf is dodging left and right.

I try to punch the wolf, but again, the fur takes all the force away. And then the wolf twists its head and closes its fangs over—

Aaaaaaah!

Fireworks. I hammer at the wolf’s face and then mash one of its eyes. It lets go then and howls in agony. I do too.

My arm! It bit down for only a second, but I think it cracked the bone! I stagger away from the wolf, and mercifully, it doesn’t follow. It’s shaking its head, and I can feel something wet on my fingers. I think I destroyed its eye, but I have to get away.

I start running. From a standing start to a sprint, I’m running. Behind me, I can hear the wolf howling. In agony? No—this sounds worse.

It sounds like a call to the pack.

Just as I think that, I hear more howls, this time in the distance. But they start getting louder, so I run on. My arm is bleeding freely, but I run on. No time to stop.

Glancing over my shoulder. I can see the wolf following, but only to keep me in its sight. It wants to gather the pack. And here they come. Blurring shapes race over a hill, fast, fast.

My arm! I can’t—the wolf tore away a huge chunk of flesh. I need a potion.

They’re in my pack, strapped to the outside for easy reach. I grab one, pop the cork, and down it, choking on the liquid. Then I hurl the bottle at the nearest wolf, making it dodge away.

The foul liquid goes down, and I wait for relief as I sprint desperately for the High Passes. The landscape changes beneath my feet. Suddenly, I’m running across what feels closer to clay, and the soil and even rocks turn a dark orange-red. And the mountains are right in front of me.

The wolves follow, howling even as more of them race out of the plains. They’re coming.

I’m never going to lose them on the open ground. I hear a growl and run left as a wolf jumps. It hits the ground, and I scramble up the rocky ground. Up the slope. Aren’t wolves supposed to have a harder time climbing or something?

It works. The wolf packs slows, and I can see them having a harder time scrambling up the rocks. But they are coming. And they’re still howling, making my blood run cold.

Gotta run. Must keep moving. I scramble up the incline, cutting my legs and hands against the jagged surface. And I feel sick? Why? My arm still burns. It should—it should be healing.

Up. I see a ledge and leap for it. It’s high, but I grab the edge and hoist myself up. The wolves charge, but they’re too late. I’m above them, safe for the moment.

On the ledge, I back away from the wolf pack and lean against the rock face, breathing heavily. I feel sick. Sick, tired, and the adrenaline in my veins is making me shake. And I’m still bleeding? Why?

Another potion. I fumble at my pack, pull out the bottle of red liquid, and down it in one go. I wait for relief. Nothing.

Confused and sick as I am, I down another potion before I realize something is seriously wrong, and at that point—

I throw up. Something is—the potion I drank is burning in my veins. What the hell? It’s not a healing potion. What is—

Something hops down from the rocks above me. I shout, hurl the potion bottle, and nearly slip in my own vomit. The goat stares reproachfully at me and bahs loudly even as the wolves keep howling and snarling below.

“A goat?”

A goddamn goat. It scared the crap out of me. But it doesn’t appear frightened of me or the wolves. In fact, it takes one look at the wolf pack trying to make its way up to where I am and bahs again, loudly.

The goat has two wide eyes on either side of its head. It looks stupid—or insane, and this one has to be brain-damaged because the snarling wolves and I are both bigger than it is. It’s clearly wild and has ragged fur, oddly damaged. It looks like it’s survived mauling before, but this is the day it dies. Because it, like me, is stupid.

…Or is it just me? Because that first bah suddenly gets an answer.

More bahs. This time, they’re all around me. I look up and see goats lining the cliffs and rocks on the High Passes. They hop up and down the cliff faces easily, making for me and the pack. What the hell? Are they not afraid of the wolves? But now the wolves are backing away from me and snarling at the goats.

Why—

The goat near me bahs again, loudly. In fact, it sounds more like a scream at this point. A scream, and now it gets real close. Suddenly, I have a really bad feeling. I back up, and the goat advances.

The goat opens its mouth, and I see its teeth. Goats should not have pointy teeth. And its mouth is unnaturally wide. The goat’s jaw dislocates, and I see a gaping maw coming my way. It’s running and shrieking like a demented monster. It screams, and I scream and run, and the Carn Wolves are running away. I try to follow, but they’re all around me and—



——



“The High Passes.”

Lady Magnolia breathed the words as she stared at the man standing in her foyer. He was—well, knowing what he did, Magnolia would have expected the man to be wearing pure black clothing and armed to the teeth, but then, he wouldn’t be very inconspicuous, would he? [Assassins] were supposed to be stealthy.

But this man was so ordinary looking he was forgettable. Magnolia was sure it was some sort of Skill, just as she was sure that she was not happy with the current situation.

“Please explain to me, Assassin Theofore, how it is that Ryoka Griffin was able to not only evade you and the others of your group, but that she is now, as I understand it, alone in the High Passes being chased by a group of Carn Wolves?”

The [Assassin] named Theofore clearly did not like being addressed by his name, but he was also wise enough not to take issue with Magnolia using it. He spread his gloved hands out and bowed his head.

“My associates and I were fully prepared to guard Ryoka Griffin against attacks within the city and even outside of it. But we were unprepared for her to accept a request to the High Passes, let alone move so quickly.”

“I did warn you she was quick. And the wolf pack?”

“We were unable to do more than slay a few of the wolves gathering before they noticed our scent. And our group was not equipped for combat against monsters, milady. We assumed this would be a protection mission against other Humans and armed accordingly. We were forced to retreat, and for our failure, you will be fully reimbursed. But the Guild cannot take further responsibility for this, Lady Magnolia.”

Lady Magnolia pursed her lips, but the [Assassin] was right. No one could have predicted—

Well, actually she could have predicted this if she’d known about the unmarked request beforehand. Magnolia knew Ryoka’s personality well, both from experience and her Skill. It was a slight oversight that cost her now and cost Ryoka—possibly her life.

She studied the [Assassin] and tapped her lips, glancing towards the window where the mountains loomed in the distance.

“If I were to pull strings and send several teams of adventurers to the High Passes, would they get there in time?”

“Perhaps to collect what remains of her corpse, Lady Magnolia. But even that is likely to have been devoured by now.”

Again, Magnolia had to suppress her vexation. Well, vexation was one word for it. She was considerably more than vexed, but a [Lady] took care to hide her emotions. Still, she had to give vent to it.

“I was assured of the highest quality in hiring your guild. I believe I made it quite clear how important Ryoka’s life was?”

The [Assassin] was not in a good spot. Technically, he was a veteran of his Guild and perfectly able to take most lives with a single flick of his concealed blades. But he was standing in front of a woman who was definitely able to take any life she wanted, including his. Perhaps not directly, but the [Maid] standing behind Lady Magnolia was setting off all of Theofore’s warning bells. He eyed her warily as he chose the best words to respond with.

“Had we known the Runner would venture into an area like the High Passes, we would have charged ten times the cost and sent our best agents. And even then, we would not have guaranteed her safety. Practically speaking, we would have attempted to subdue Ryoka Griffin long before she entered that area. Countless monsters abound there, Lady Reinhart. The wolves would be just another type of prey, there.”

“Really? And here I was about to order you to go into the High Passes with your associates and get her out. Although your presence here means, even with my carriage, you’ll be too late. Still, I may well order it after all.”

Magnolia brightened at that. Theofore—hesitated.

Send them into the High Passes? He knew they were just Ranks, lowly members of the Guild, but she couldn’t do that! That was a death sentence.

But she was Magnolia Reinhart, and the Guild…he began to sweat as Magnolia tapped her lips.

What Theofore didn’t know was that she was only making an idle threat. Magnolia…her eyes flickered to Ressa’s face, reflected from one of the polished doorknobs, and the [Maid] grimaced.

It was him. It had to be. Ryoka had a chance, however slim, and the [Assassins] could not be deployed. She sighed, and the [Assassin]’s sweat turned into imminent dehydration as Magnolia looked at him.

“Is there any hope these other monsters would devour the wolves and leave Ryoka alive?”

“Doubtful, Lady. They would try to kill anything that disturbed them. And it is likely that even if Ryoka outran the wolves, she would not be able to evade the most prevalent type of monster in the High Passes.”

“And which would those be?”

“Gargoyles.”



——



Gargoyles!

I think I’m screaming. I’m definitely running, but I can barely feel my feet getting cut on the rocks between my nausea and the terror electrifying my body.

The nearest oddly shaped stone unfurls its massive stone wings and seizes the first goat trying to rip me to shreds. The goat tries to break free, bleating in panic, but the Gargoyle just reaches up and pulls the goat apart. Blood rains down around me as more of the deceptively innocuous rocks spring to life around me.

I’ve just run straight into a nest of Gargoyles. That would normally be terrible by itself if it weren’t for the pack of wolves and goats trying to eat me.

The rocky slope behind me is already filled with wolves and goats tearing each other to shreds. And the worst thing is that the wolves are losing. The goats came out of the cliffs in a horde and started eating the wolves, ripping them apart and fighting over the scraps.

I ran uphill to get away from the ones chasing me, but instead, I just ran into worse trouble. For the Gargoyles, it’s like I just offered myself up on a plate and brought a lot of hors d’oeuvres.

The Gargoyle that just tore apart the goat tosses the pieces up. Its curved beak-mouth snaps, and it crunches horribly. The goats swerve and immediately retreat, but the other Gargoyles lumber forward. Half of them leap down towards the goats and wolves now in full retreat. The other half go after me.

I run on. I haven’t stopped running, but I find some more juice and tell my legs to go even faster. I don’t know how they’re doing it.

I feel sick. It’s like my body is shutting down, but at the same time, it’s like someone’s hitting me with a taser*. Even though I want to sit down and throw up, I’m running as fast as I ever have. It’s like I can’t run out of energy, and I need every drop.



*Never been tased. Run!



A huge Gargoyle unfolds in front of me. It looks vaguely like a bird crossed with an ogre, a hulking giant beast with skin that looks like stone but slides around like flesh. It opens its mouth, and I see a dark opening before something shoots out.

I feel something spin me around and then stumble forwards. My hand goes up, and I feel at my shoulder. Sliced flesh. Deep slice. The Gargoyle fires again, and I stumble sideways. The stone fragments it spits miss me and eviscerate the wolf behind me.

The hell was that? It’s like a shotgun! And the sound the Gargoyles are making—a roaring warble that makes rocks tumble down. I can feel it in my bones.

I can’t fight. I don’t even think of trying. Muay Thai doesn’t have any moves that teach you how to dodge bullets or break stone.

So I run. I was born to run. I was born to fly.

The nest of Gargoyles is high up. It’s a relatively open area, looking down on the high pass. Fifty—sixty feet below? It’s not a straight drop—more like a sharp incline. Normally, I’d descend with the utmost caution, but the Gargoyles lumber towards me, fast. So I dash towards the edge even as a Gargoyle charges me.

My feet leave the ground as I leap. I jump over the Gargoyle’s lashing stone tail and touch down on a rocky outcropping. Even as my feet find purchase, I look and move. Another jump, and now I’m aiming right for the rocky slope.

Stone cracks and deceptive crevices leap up at me as I fall in slow motion. The slope is a maze of places to twist or break my ankles. But I can see every fault in the rock face. My foot hits the edge of the cliff, and then I plunge down, sprinting down even as several rocky monsters lumber after me, spitting stone shards.

Left foot, stone spot. Right foot avoids the fragile green moss. I’m leaning forwards as I run down. Right, left, jump, pivot—

I lose my balance and slam against a rock. I’m tumbling down, but I correct my footing and push off. I’m in the air for five seconds and then land and transfer the force of my fall into descending.

Fast. So fast. The slope is blurring beneath me, and I can see the open pass below. I’m going too fast to stop. So I twist—



——



The almost vertical slope leading up to the Gargoyles’ lair crumbled away in the wake of Ryoka’s descent. Small stones bounced wildly down the uneven landscape, dislodging larger boulders and causing a minor earthquake. But even the avalanche was too slow to catch her.

Ryoka’s feet were a blur as she sped downwards, on a collision course with the ground. She was moving too fast. Even if she tried, the strain of taking all her momentum aimed downwards and transitioning to the flat ground might break her leg. So instead, she threw herself into a roll.

Ryoka hit the flat ground and tumbled fifteen feet before she landed on her back. She stared up at the cloudy sky, winded. But in another second, she was up and running. She was being chased.

The stony, half-avian, half-hulking forms of the Gargoyles launched themselves off the cliff. They did not fear breaking any body parts. One smashed into the ground behind Ryoka, making the earth shake around her. She ran on as the Gargoyle surged upwards and chased after her.

Her body was electric. She felt like she was dying of the flu, yet more alive than she’d ever been. Ryoka was bleeding from her torn up feet, her bitten arm, and the places where the Gargoyle’s shrapnel fire had cut her flesh. Her clothes were torn, and she was bruised from countless impacts.

The ground shook as more Gargoyles launched themselves off the cliff and hit the earth like bombs. They couldn’t really fly, heavy as they were—but they could angle their descent. Ryoka ran on as stone monsters twice as tall as she was landed around her.

Birds shrieked in the sky, except they weren’t birds. Razorbeaks, the prehistoric avians with leathery wings and beaks full of teeth, swarmed down out of the sky. They dove down, seizing carcasses and entrails from the fighting monsters. Others dove at Ryoka, biting, tearing at her. She flailed at them as she ran on.

Death was everywhere. Ryoka felt it in every bite, every scratch. She was bleeding from a dozen wounds, and she felt like she was dying with every step. And she was confused. She was afraid—terrified out of her mind, and in pain. So why? Why—

Why was she smiling?

This was it. This was the end, and it was a stupid, pointless, and painful end. It was all her fault, and yet—there was a relief there.

At last. She felt like…

She was bleeding. She was leaving an actual trail of blood like movies. The young woman laughed, but coughed and stumbled again. Her feet didn’t hurt.

You idiot. This was all her fault. Just because she was so stubborn—at least someone was taking her to account. She kept stumbling forwards, just to spite the monsters. Spite was all she ran on. Not love of her family, not hope for anything in particular. Not family, not friends.

Garia was going to be sad. Ceria had done so much for…

—She got up. She thought she’d broken her nose, but the angry Gargoyle made her stand. She kept running as another piece of stone embedded itself in the ground.

She had no friends nor purpose. Just forwards. One more step—

A wild grin covered Ryoka’s face, twisting away into a grimace as she dodged left, a flicker of surprise as she saw the small, ragged piece of yellow cloth waving at the entrance of a massive cave. Her eyes were alight with life, and as she ran into the cavernous entrance that a Boeing-747 could easily taxi into with plenty of space to spare—

She was smiling. The Gargoyles turned and fled, the Razorbeaks peeled away, screaming in distress, and the remaining wolves and goats fled for their homes. Ryoka stumbled into the cave.



——



The Runner staggered into the cave, bleeding, injured, and sick.

Ryoka stumbled forwards and found the rough ground had suddenly changed. She was suddenly walking along…marble? Maybe not marble, but some smooth, glossy stone had replaced the dark rocky ground. She left footprints in blood as she walked forwards, almost numb to the competing agonies in her body.

The monsters were gone. They’d stopped chasing Ryoka all of a sudden. She could barely process that, though. She was staring around. Around and up.

The cavern she’d entered had appeared large to begin with. But as Ryoka walked further into it, it was clear that rather than calling this place a cave, it was more as if someone had hollowed out the inside of the mountain. She walked into a massive auditorium filled with…stuff.

That was the word for it. Stuff. Huge, carved pillars flanked Ryoka as she walked further in. They gave way to tapestries hung from the walls, important-looking people and epic landscapes. Rows of bookshelves suddenly appeared on her left, and then tables and countless pedestals holding things that glowed with magic and mysterious light. A huge table as long as a bus sat piled with pieces of paper and bubbling liquids. An alchemy lab, sitting next to a mirror that didn’t show Ryoka’s reflection as she passed, only a shimmering mist of strange colors.

Armor and arms stood against another far wall, an armory among armories. Swords and maces shared places with plate armor and weapons Ryoka didn’t even have a name for. The cavernous room was filled with wealth. It was a treasury of everything and anything expensive.

And standing in the middle of all of it was a man. Not just a man, though. Ryoka stumbled towards him.

Her mind—

Was failing. She felt herself losing blood, but she had to keep moving. If she stopped, she’d collapse. Ryoka squinted. It was so far to walk, but she kept going.

…

Who was he? Ryoka squinted. She felt like she was far away and close at the same time, so she lurched forwards. She saw—

(A massive Dragon sat in the cave, staring down at Ryoka. His brilliant yellow and gold scales glinted in the half light as he raised a claw—)

“What?”

Ryoka blinked. Her head—she staggered towards the man in regal clothing, clutching at her side. He was an old man, one with a veritable mane of silver-gray hair. But for all that, he was tall—taller than she was even. And his clothing looked like it was the most expensive stuff she’d ever seen, on par with Lady Magnolia’s attire.

But his face caught Ryoka. He was lined like an elderly statesman, but his features could have been used as a template for sculptures. He looked like the most handsome old guy she’d ever seen, and she was not attracted to older men. But she was to him.

He looked like an archetype of humanity, only one aged well into his sixties or seventies. He was magnificent—

(He was a Dragon. Yet his illusions showed only the man, and the Dragon’s head rose with the simulacrum’s, wary and alarmed.)

The figure had been resting on a reclining couch long enough to accommodate even his long frame. Eyes, sleeping. The head rose—(and so did the Dragon’s, eyes fluttering awake with alarm and fear. Then anger.)

Ryoka blinked. She was lying on the ground. She picked herself up and saw the blood. It dripped onto the expensive stone. She couldn’t feel much, but she saw the man walking towards her.

She wavered on her feet. The occupant of the cave looked at her: a bleeding, dying Human. In a state of shock, even as he seemed to wake from a long nap.

“Who dares—who are you?”

His voice echoed through that grand chamber, furious and startled, then surprised as he took in the blood trailing behind her. The holes in her flesh. The man looked up, and the young woman smiled at him, fearless and dying and…young. Like many such people her age.

She grinned at him and raised her hand. Ryoka held out the bit of parchment in a bloodstained grip.

“Delivery.”

Then she fell to the ground, unconscious. The elderly man looked down at the unconscious Ryoka Griffin and blinked a few times. How surprising.

—Upon closer inspection, his ears were pointed upwards. If Ryoka had been in any state to inspect anything, that was. The ‘man’ sighed and muttered a few words that were loud and quiet at the same time. Ryoka’s bleeding stopped. He flicked his fingers, and the trail of blood she’d brought in slowly flowed together into a crimson orb that floated towards him.

He caught it and tossed it on Ryoka’s body. The blood flowed towards her and into her. She stirred and sighed. He sighed too.

“Humans.”

It was probably best to let the magic work. She was suffering from mana poisoning, which was far more difficult to cure than mere blood loss. Meanwhile, he could investigate this strange Human on his own. His spells weren’t showing her level or class for some reason.

The occupant of the cave turned and strode away. He made it five steps before he tripped over a goblet and fell on his face. Quickly, he got up and made sure the Human was still asleep. The elderly man scowled, kicked the golden chalice, and winced as it crashed into something in the distance and shattered it. He scowled at nothing in particular.

“Rot.”





1.41


Erin left her inn three times over the course of the next two days. The first time she went out, she visited Selys, and the two had a long chat—lecture, really—about not going out and fighting monsters alone. Then they visited a bathhouse, helped Erin pick out more clothing, and went to see the ruins.

The ruins were about ten miles out from the city, but such was the traffic going to and from the ruins that it was easy to hitch a ride on a cart. Erin wondered why the mysterious ruins were safe to visit until Selys pointed out the countless adventurers of various levels congregating around the ruins.

There were at least a hundred mostly Human adventurers now in the city and in the makeshift tent city that had already appeared around the ruins. ‘Mostly Silver and Bronze-ranks’, according to Selys, which seemed to suggest that this wasn’t too impressive despite the numbers. But for all the shanty town’s size, it was dwarfed by the size of the excavated ruins.

They were massive. The excavation site itself was a giant pit in the ground—three times as large as a football stadium—that had unearthed a dark stone opening, a massive doorway into a crypt, or so Erin and Selys were told.

They didn’t go anywhere near the building. Few of the adventurers did either, and the [Traders] offering goods had parked their shops on the edge of the crater.

Apparently, the ruins were still filled with dirt and dried mud from years of being buried. Thus, adventurers were digging while fending off the monsters that lived within. Apparently, the place abounded with giant, burrowing rats—which Drakes did not eat, according to Selys—various types of the undead, varieties of spiders, and other low to mid-level monsters.

That was slowing up the adventuring teams, along with the sheer size of the ruins. But the main truth of it was that none of the diggers hired wanted to dig far in case they found something, and most of the adventuring teams felt the same. True, several had found small caskets of valuables, like silver and jewels, indicating this was at least partly an old crypt, but several of the more adventurous teams had advanced further in and never come back.

Or they’d come back shuffling and moaning, trying to eat the flesh of the living.

That was the first visit, and Erin was lucky enough not to see any dead zombies—especially because she had a lovely lunch with Selys as they watched everyone mill about and not do anything much around the ruins. She attracted quite a bit of attention herself, being known as the innkeeper who slew Shield Spiders and, more notably, the Human innkeeper.

Several Human adventurers came by to talk to Erin, but didn’t get very far with Selys glaring at them. They promised to visit her inn later, a promise Erin didn’t know if they’d keep when she told them she wasn’t serving alcohol yet.



——



The next day, Erin went out and visited Selys again, only this time, it was for business. The business of being paid, to be exact.

Erin happily held up the cloth bag and shook it. It made a dull metallic sound. She frowned, but the lack of any satisfying jingle wasn’t enough to get her down.

“Money~!”

Selys smiled at Erin as she put away the signed receipt under the counter in the Adventurer’s Guild.

“Just don’t spend it all in one place, okay, Erin?”

“Sure, sure. I’ll just spend it on important stuff. Like—fancy dust rags! Or alcohol! Or…a dress?”

Selys eyed Erin sternly and shook her head.

“How about a weapon? You could probably afford a good one with that much money.”

All told, the bounty on the Shield Spiders plus the fee she earned from selling their carcasses earned Erin just over eleven gold coins, reduced some because some of the spiders had been burned too badly to use. That was generally agreed to be a lot of money, but not a lot for the bounty on the carcasses.

One of the more senior Drake adventurers not currently staring at the Ruins leaned over the desk to talk to Erin. He was friendly and yellow-scaled, and Erin couldn’t remember his name.

“You could have gotten a far better deal selling the spiders’ bodies elsewhere. Probably half again as much, especially if you went right to the right merchants. The Guild charges far too much for its service.”

Selys glared at the Drake who had spoken.

“The Guild pays a good rate for monster parts! If you’ve got a problem, Ylss, take it up with the guild master—or the council.”

Ylss flicked out his tongue dismissively.

“The Guild won’t listen, and the council won’t either. But I’ve been talking to the Human adventurers, and they say their guilds pay them far better than ours does.”

“That’s because Human adventurers go out and fight monsters instead of their city Watch. If you want to negotiate prices, go slay a Shield Spider nest yourself. Erin here—”

Selys glanced around. She spotted Erin with her hand on the door.

“Erin, are you going already?”

Erin waved and smiled and opened the door before Selys asked if she wanted to stay. She did not, especially if it meant listening to another argument. Drakes were surprisingly—or was that unsurprisingly?—hot-headed.

It was time to go back to the inn before she splurged on everything. Erin only bought a few essentials from Krshia, a few more from other shops, fended off the Gnoll’s attempts to get her to have a cup of tea, and went home for lunch.



——



When Erin returned to her inn, she found it had been ransacked. She spent a few minutes staring at the trashed kitchen and her upended bags and supplies. They hadn’t ever been neatly organized in the first place, but the person—or people—who had visited her inn while she was away had tossed everything onto the floor and trampled it.

They hadn’t taken much. Erin didn’t have much. But they’d taken quite a bit of food, spilled the rest on the ground, and taken other of Erin’s vital necessities.

Like her toothbrush. When Erin realized that was gone, she finally flipped. She grabbed the bag of her money—noting that the rest of the money she’d hidden in the inn was also missing—and stormed back towards the city.



——



Selys had to half-jog to keep up with Erin as the other girl stomped through the market.

“So let me get this straight. You don’t mind monsters attacking you, but the instant someone steals from your inn, you want protection?”

Erin glared at Selys.

“Yes!”

“But they didn’t even steal anything important. Some food and a few coins—”

“One gold coin and three silver coins!”

“Why didn’t you hide it better? Or put it under lock and key?”

“I don’t have a lock. Or a key!”

“We can buy a vault or an enchanted lock and key if you want. I know a good shop—”

“No. I want a weapon.”

“Suit yourself. Here’s a good shop the adventurers talk about.”

Selys pointed, and Erin made a beeline for the store manned by a burly Gnoll. He bared his teeth at Erin and nodded silently at her.

“Erin Human. Greetings.”

“Hi there.”

Erin smiled back at the Gnoll, showing her teeth as well. It was a Gnoll thing that she had learned. Selys just nodded at the Gnoll without showing any teeth.

“I’m looking for a weapon.”

The Gnoll nodded and spread one hand to indicate his wares. Erin stared at a veritable armory of weapons on display. Most made sense to her, but only in the sense of having seen them in movies. They all looked sharp.

“For a friend of Krshia, I will do my best to oblige you, yes? Do you fight with any weapon besides your hands, Erin Solstice?”

“Um. No. No…in fact, I’ve never held anything larger than a knife.”

The Gnoll paused as he unhooked a devilish-looking scimitar from a weapon rack. He put the weapon back and nodded.

“We have many weapons for beginners and self-defense, yes? Daggers, clubs…these weapons would be best.”

Erin stared at the dagger he carefully offered her hilt-first. It looked pointy, and the metal was polished until she could see her vague reflection in it. But that was about all she knew about weapons.

“I’m not too sure a dagger would help against most of the monsters I see wandering around my inn.”

Then again, she doubted even the battleaxes would help if she were fighting a Rock Crab.

“…How about a crossbow? Do you have one of those?”

Selys snorted.

“Erin, those fire once. Ever tried reloading them? Not exactly fast—”

“But they are good for amateurs. I do not stock them, but Drake cities make use of them. We Gnolls—less so.”

The [Shopkeeper] grinned, indicating racks of bows. Erin hmmed.

“I can’t shoot arrows well. I’d like a crossbow. Would anyone sell them for…”

She showed him how much she had, which was a bad business move, but the Gnoll just peered at the coins and shook his head.

“They are pricier than a cheap bow, Miss Solstice, due to how they are made. Especially good ones from the House of Minos or Noelictus. For what you have, an ordinary crossbow is possibly out of reach, let alone an enchanted one.”

“Okay, no crossbow then.”

Erin sighed and stared at the racks of weapons. Selys tapped her shoulder and coughed discreetly.

“You don’t have to buy a weapon, you know. I keep telling you our adventurers will guard your inn.”

“For eight silver coins a day per adventurer? And that’s for the lowest-level ones, right? No thank you.”

Erin shook her head. She had a better idea than Selys’ option in mind, and fortunately, it didn’t involve her learning to poke people with bits of metal.

“Do you have any good short swords? Is that a shortsword? It looks short.”

The Gnoll nodded. He pulled a bronze sword that was indeed short off the display and placed it on the counter. Erin poked the hilt gingerly before picking it up. Selys hovered beside Erin, making sure the Human’s hands were well away from the blade. Both she and the Gnoll seemed more anxious than Erin was around bladed weapons.

“You know buying a sword won’t immediately give you any classes? You need weeks—months of practice before you’ll learn any Skills. And I wouldn’t try swinging it around by yourself Erin, I really wouldn’t.”

“I’m not stupid.”

“No, but—”

“How much?”

“For you, two gold coins and three silver.”

Erin looked at Selys. The Drake nodded cautiously.

“That’s expensive. But it is good craftsmanship.”

“Fine steel. You will not find better in the city.”

The Gnoll nodded and tapped the blade. He seemed honest, at least in that Erin hadn’t met a dishonest Gnoll yet. They were a bit more straightforward than Drakes, while Drakes were more like Humans.

“Okay, how about a shield? A, uh, buckler? Is that what they’re called?”

She pointed, and the Gnoll brought out a metal shield rounded in the center. It was a tiny shield, meant to be held in the hand to deflect weapons rather than arrows.

Selys objected.

“It’s too small. Look, you need a larger shield if you really want to equip yourself. Which I still don’t recommend, by the way. And even if you have both, you’re not a trained warrior, Erin. I could beat you, and I don’t even practice.”

Erin, the vanquisher of Shield Spiders, gave Selys a slightly indignant look. The slim [Receptionist] seemed serious, too.

“I know what I’m doing, Selys. Anyways, it’s not for myself. How much for both?”

“We do not sell many bucklers. I will sell both for four gold coins, Erin Solstice, so long as you promise not to use either without first being instructed.”

She grinned at him, her hands already going into her money pouch. It was a lot of her remaining coin, but Erin forked over the four fat coins at once.

“Deal. But like I said, these aren’t for me. They’re a gift. Or maybe a bribe.”

Selys was shaking her head as the coins changed hands and the Gnoll found a sheath for the short sword.

“A bribe? For who? Who’d use something as small as—wait. You’re not thinking of—Erin! No!”

Erin lifted both weapons into her arms. Even with her [Lesser Strength] Skill, they were heavy. She turned to Selys and copied the Drake’s exasperated expression.

“Why not? They’re cheap, I know them personally, and they live around my inn.”

“They’ll stab you in the back when you’re asleep!”

Erin walked away from the Gnoll shopkeeper, arguing with Selys as he watched them in bemusement.

“They haven’t done it so far. Besides, these are the good ones. Well, sort of good. I already feed them.”

“This is a terrible idea, you’ll see.”

“No, it’s a great idea. You’ll see. And I could beat you in a fight, Selys. No offense.”

“Erin, you really couldn’t. I had to take [Soldier] training—every Liscorian citizen has to be at least Level 1 for the army. Plus, my grandmother and my uncle gave me lessons. You’re good in a fight, but no soldier.”

“That’s a joke, right, Selys?”

The Drake put her claws on her hips as Erin tried not to look amused.

“Want to stop by the training grounds on the way to your inn?”



——



Half an hour later, Rags stared down at the shiny weapons Erin offered her and then up at the Human smiling at her. Well, sort of smiling.

Erin was wincing—mostly because of the bruises on her butt and sides. And scratches. Selys had given her a bit of healing potion, but even with that—

Who knew [Receptionists] could fight dirty? Let alone fight with their claws.

Not just claws like a cat would scratch you, but a set of steel claws you wore over your hands, like brass knuckles. Apparently, Selys sometimes tested Silver-ranks, and she had given Erin a lot of scratches.

Then again, she wasn’t here because Erin had kicked her in the stomach hard enough to make Selys lie down. Erin felt bad and good about that. Anyways, now Erin was proferring her new gear to Rags, and she was smiling expectantly.

Right up until Erin realized the Goblin wasn’t taking the gear. Slowly, the small Goblin shook her head.

Erin’s face fell. She thrust the sheathed short sword at the Goblin, and the Goblin backed up into her bodyguards.

“No? Why not? Come on, it’s a great deal!”

Rags shook her head again, and the other Goblins following her moved in front of her and barred Erin’s way. The far taller [Innkeeper] scowled at them, and they quailed a bit, but there were seven Goblins including Rags in the inn and only one Erin. If it came to it—

They’d probably run. But strangely, Rags was confident Erin would never try to hurt them. She was a strange Human, possibly a good one. She just had terrible ideas, like the deal she was offering the Goblins.

She was no longer the smallest Goblin. She was now Rags—and her tribe was no longer really a tribe.

Some Goblins ate and slept in the cave, but most had left or wandered off. Rags was finding them and making them come back and eat in the cave—and gather blue fruits and hunt. The Chieftain was dead.

Someone had to be a Chieftain. Rags had kept the Goblins who listened to her fed. Gather blue fruits, make a fire, steal eggs, get the fish—Erin’s meals fed more Goblins. This…

This was hard. But Rags was now Rags, and she had a new class.

[Chieftain]. So long as she was one, her tribe would not attack the inn. Her tribe. But that did not mean…she shoved the hilt of the sword back, but Erin kept waving it in her face.

“Look. It’s really simple, okay? I’ll give you these weapons and feed you guys as much as you want. In return, you guard my inn. Keep thieves and monsters away. It’s not a bad deal, right?”

It was a bad deal. While Rags was no eloquent orator, her own train of thought was quite clear. Her splintered tribe had been small even before the Chieftain had been killed. Now, it was in a power struggle, and Rags was leading the smaller breakaway faction who didn’t believe all Humans should be eaten on sight.

More than that, the small Goblin knew the Floodplains and was sure that defending the inn was a death sentence. What the strange Human girl was offering was a terrible deal. The magnificent weapons tempted Rags greatly, but even they couldn’t outweigh the massive disadvantages of Erin’s proposal.

Now, how to explain that to an idiot? Rag’s brow furrowed, and she tried her best. She gargled a few syllables in her own language at Erin and then tried the language Erin spoke in. Neither worked. Erin just stared at her blankly, like one of the grazing animals—cows.

“You don’t want the sword?”

Rags nodded. She pointed at the other Goblins and at the ground and then shook her head. She held up a claw, pointed at the sword and her chest, and nodded vigorously—then repeated pointing at the ground and shaking her head. Erin worked this out.

“Okay, you want the sword. But you don’t want to guard.”

Rags nodded again.

“Why? Is it because there aren’t enough of you?”

Nod, nod. At last, Erin was getting it.

“Well—you could be tactical about it, couldn’t you? What if I got you a bow and arrow? That might be better than running around in a huge mob like you guys do.”

This time, all the Goblins glared at Erin. That was a valid, traditional Goblin tactic. Rags had improved on the formula by swarming in controlled bursts and incorporating devilishly cunning tactics like feints into their strategy, but swarming was what Goblins did best.

“Fighting in a huge mob just doesn’t seem that smart is all I’m saying. But what if you all had bows or something?”

Again, Rags shook her head. She mimed shooting an arrow and then poked the Goblin in the head next to her gently.

“Oh, not strong enough? Really?”

Nod. Rags really wished she could speak other languages or, barring that, only one Human could understand her. It was just as well she was a genius and Erin was bright enough so they could communicate this way.

And it seemed like Erin got it. Bows were useful, but not as good as having many knives. Goblins’ shorter reach and weaker strength meant that they couldn’t fire as far or as hard as a Human or Drake archer anyways.

Erin wondered how strong you had to be to pierce Shield Spider armor.

“I get it. Small arms and small bows, right? Size does matter. Too bad you don’t have any crossbows.”

Rags’ ears perked up at that, but the Goblin didn’t react in any other way, letting the Human girl muse on, oblivious.

“I guess—well, yeah, anyone in armor wouldn’t be killed by a few arrows. But crossbows and longbows can pierce that stuff, right? But longbows—”

Erin eyed the Goblins. They were around four feet tall on average, and only the special ones like the former Chieftain got any taller. And even he would have had trouble stringing the massive longbows that could reach up to seven feet in length.

“Life is tough, huh?”

This time, all the Goblins nodded. Life was tough. They were at war—well, Goblins were always at war, but this time, they were at war with each other. The tribe was small, food was scarce because winter was coming, and they only had a weird Human in an inn to feed them food in between running from the countless adventurers pouring into the region.

“Well, I guess I could return these things.”

Erin sighed and placed the short sword and buckler on a table. She noted how all the Goblins’ eyes were drawn covetously towards the weapon. Drat. She’d thought it was a good idea, but when she really thought about it, she understood Rags’ predicament.

Besides, when Erin stood in front of the tiny Goblin girl, she felt like she was still speaking to a child. Perhaps—perhaps she was. How long did it take for Goblins to grow up? How could you tell how old they were anyways?

Erin eyed all the Goblins as they seemed to confer with their leader, Rags. They were injured, most of them. They came into her inn every few days and ate as much as they could before waddling out, and they paid. But Erin had the distinct impression the battle that had started at her inn hadn’t ended with Klbkch. The Goblins’ faces were hard to remember, but some changed every few days. And Rags had her own cuts and scars on her body.

They were—well, they were evil, some of them. But the ones in front of Erin struck a chord with her. A sense of shared suffering, perhaps. And Erin had an idea that would help them and maybe her a tiny bit.

She stood up. The Goblins immediately looked up at her. Erin pointed.

“Stay there. And don’t steal the sword or I’ll flatten you, got it?”

She walked back into her trashed kitchen that she still hadn’t found the time to tidy up. She walked to the back of the kitchen and opened a cupboard and stared at the jars inside. The thief who’d ransacked her inn hadn’t even gone near this cupboard or tried to drink what was inside. Very wise, given the contents of the jars.

The Goblins were all crowded around the short sword when Erin lugged the massive jar of Acid Fly juice back into the room. They were gingerly touching the blade and cutting their fingers on the edge when they looked up. When they saw what Erin was carrying, they immediately fled for the door.

“Hold it!”

Rags paused and tripped up the Goblins behind her. They crashed into a pile, and she stared suspiciously at Erin as the Human groaned and set the jar on the floor. Glowing, green acid sloshed about in the too-thin glass walls of the container. A massive jar! Erin had heard this was for pickling fish or something, but she had a different use in mind that had horrified everyone who saw it. She rubbed her back and beckoned at the Goblin.

“I’ve got an idea that’ll help us both out. And I’ll give you the sword and buckler, okay? I’ll put it on your tab.”

That did the trick. Rags was over caressing the blade in a second. Erin pointed to the acid jars.

“You know what this is, right?”

Rags nodded. She kept a very respectful distance from the green, glowing acid sloshing in the jar and made the other Goblins stand even further back. That made Erin feel better too. She wouldn’t put it past one of them to trip into the glass jar, and that would not be a pretty sight.

She patted the glass jar.

“Dangerous stuff. And I don’t want it. But what if I gave you some smaller jars? You could sort of throw this stuff at people, right? Not on Shield Spiders, though. It doesn’t really work on them. But other things—yeah. What do you think?”

She pulled out a small, Human-fist-sized jar and showed it to Rags. The Goblins blinked down at the small jar, and they looked at the bigger glass jar in sudden comprehension.

“I’ll sell you these acid jars, and you can pay me, okay?”

Erin waited. Rags studied the green Acid Fly liquid mixed with the occasional fly body. She knew full well how dangerous the acid was. She was also impressed Erin was brave enough to harvest the Acid Flies, especially given how big some of them got. And the deal she was offering?

That was a good deal.

The Goblin looked at the jars and saw a thousand different tactical options, not least of which was letting other Goblins drink the deadly acid if she left it out in the open. Erin looked at the Goblins and saw a convenient recycling machine that might pay her.

Both Human and Goblin smiled.



——



It was weird making a deal in sign language, but Erin had played chess players from other countries before. Even a deaf chess player and two mute ones. One of them had kicked her ass twice in a row, and she’d had a great time laughing with him over a stupid move she’d made—

The point was that she could communicate more or less with Rags. The small Goblin was extremely smart, and that was before you compared her with the other Goblins following her. They’d contented themselves with picking their noses and wiping their fingers on each other while Erin and Rags ‘talked’.

Eventually, the deal had been for Rags and her Goblins to pay several bronze coins per jar of acid. It wasn’t much, especially since Erin would have to buy newer, smaller jars for the Goblins to carry. But it was better than her pouring the acid out on the ground like she’d been doing. There was a huge scar in the earth outside of her inn that testified to how smart that idea was.

But it was a good deal. A great deal, even. It brought new revenue into Erin’s inn, especially since Rags bought all the jars Erin had in the inn and filled them up with acid. It helped her get rid of something she didn’t want, and it might help Rags and her band of Goblins survive a bit longer.

It was a good deal. It just wasn’t the deal Erin wanted.

She stared at the jar of acid. She could make her own acid flasks if she wanted. It was a handy weapon, even if some things like the Rock Crabs and the Shield Spiders were mostly immune to the acid. She had her fists and that [Bar Fighting] Skill as well as [Unerring Throw]. It was enough for self-defense against most of the monsters she’d seen, and she could run away from the rest.

But none of that helped protect her inn. Someone could walk in and steal as much as they wanted if Erin were gone, or they could hide and attack her when she got back. She had no defense against mobs of enemies, and she was sure a Rock Crab could level the inn if one got close. Seed cores wouldn’t scare away a swarm of the stupid crabs if something set them off.

She needed protection. Without it, Erin was truly screwed. And—and she needed to clean up her trashed inn, buy replacements for all of her supplies, and hope that she had enough money left over for—something. And that the mysterious thief wouldn’t come back when Erin was out again.

None of it was overwhelming, but for Erin, it was too much to deal with at the moment. She rested her head on the table, exhausted.

Knock. Knock.

Erin didn’t raise her head off the table.

“Come in.”

Knock. Knock.

“I said, come in.”

No response. The knocking continued. Erin waited for it to end, but the person at the door was persistent. First one minute, then five, the knocking continued rhythmically, without stopping. At last, Erin stood up, growling.

She stalked over to the door and yanked it open.

“I said—”

A skeleton stood in the doorway, tall as Erin—taller. Just a skeleton. Its yellow-white bones were devoid of any flesh, and yet it stood upright, denying biology and physics. Erin looked into twin burning blue-white flames that flickered in the skeleton’s eye sockets. The skeleton opened its jaw and clattered at her.

Erin shut the door. Then she screamed. Then she turned to run for the kitchen knives.

Only when she had turned did Erin realize she hadn’t locked the door. It opened, and she turned to see the skeleton walk silently into her inn.

Erin backed up. The skeleton advanced. It wasn’t attacking. It wasn’t attacking, but Erin was about to have a heart attack. It stepped towards her, and Erin nearly tripped over the acid jar still sitting on the floor.

Suddenly, the skeleton raised a hand. Erin flinched and raised her hands, but the undead creature wasn’t attacking. It didn’t have…any weapon? And yes, it wasn’t striking at her. Instead, it held something in its hand.

Erin blinked. The skeleton held the scrap of parchment out to her silently. She took a step back, and it advanced. Not too close to her, but it wasn’t letting her get away either.

She hesitated. The skeleton was just staring at her, although it had no real eyes, just the burning sockets in its skull. That was worse. It was waiting. She had to do something. So Erin took a few deep breaths and then reached out.

She took the piece of paper from the skeleton with a shaking hand. Erin edged away from the skeleton and swiftly glanced down at the paper, reading while keeping an eye on the undead monster. She blinked at the messy script, looked up at the skeleton, and then around. She glanced back at the skeleton and then got mad.

“Pisces!”

He appeared in the room, wavering into focus as his [Invisibility] spell ended. Perhaps he’d meant it to be a dramatic entrance, but Erin wasn’t impressed. It wasn’t nearly as cool as an invisibility cloak.

Pisces opened his mouth, and Erin stepped forwards and punched him in the face. Hard. He fell down, barely missing the acid jar. Quickly, Erin grabbed the jar and towed it into the kitchen before she or he knocked it over.

The mage, or rather, [Necromancer], looked up at Erin reproachfully as she walked back into the room. She didn’t give him a hand up, so he reluctantly picked himself off, brushing the dirt on his robes onto the ground.

“That was most unkind to a faithful patron, good Mistress.”

“Jerk. What the hell is that?”

Erin pointed with a shaking finger to the skeleton. It had watched everything silently.

Sulkily, Pisces pointed to the piece of paper on the ground.

“I assumed my explanation would quell any questions you had.”

Erin seized the mage by the robes and dragged him face to face.

“What. Is. That?”

He looked into her eyes and chose his words carefully.

“It is a skeleton. An undead, animated skeleton to be precise.”

“And why is it here?”

“To protect you, of course. And to pay off my considerable tab.”

Erin let Pisces go. She stared at the skeleton and pulled at her hair.

“Why is—why did—”

Her hands twitched as she tried to stop from strangling Pisces on the spot. He backed up and straightened his robes, looking huffy.

“Is it not what you’ve been seeking?”

“You’re lucky I don’t throw acid on your face.”

“Please, Erin. I am only acting in your best interests—and mine. Consider this undead warrior.”

Pisces indicated the silent skeleton.

“Affordable, competent protection that needs neither sleep nor sustenance. I would say it is you who should be tendering your gratitude to me, Erin.”

He smiled, self-satisfied. Erin didn’t smile. She eyed the skeleton.

“It’s for me? What, does it obey orders?”

Pisces looked mildly insulted.

“Of course. I attuned it to you already. This skeleton will obey all commands and faithfully guard you and your possessions. Give it a command and see.”

Erin really didn’t want to. But the skeleton was standing too close for comfort. So she pointed to a corner.

“Go over there.”

Immediately, the skeleton turned and walked to the corner, navigating around the tables and chairs. There it stopped and swiveled its head, watching for Erin’s next command.

Somehow, having a skeleton standing in a dark corner staring at her was even worse than having it right next to her. Erin shuddered.

“I don’t like it.”

She ordered the skeleton to come back. It obediently walked closer, and Erin walked around the skeleton. She had to order it to stand still first, and then the skeleton stood, like the creepiest statue, in place.

“Why did you think this was a good idea, Pisces?”

Pisces glanced at Erin, put out by the continued questioning.

“I have heard your repeated complaints about inadequate protection. And when I noticed the, ah, state your inn was in this morning—”

“Oh, yeah! Did you do that?”

He raised his hands and backed away.

“Not I. The culprit had already departed when I arrived.”

The mage’s eyes shifted. Erin wondered if he’d been the one to help himself to her coin—or more food. She growled, and the skeleton moved. It jerked into a low, fighting stance and faced Pisces of all people. He looked as alarmed as Erin.

“Call it off.”

“You’re the [Necromancer], you do it.”

“I made it so it would only obey you. Call it off or I’ll have to dismantle it.”

“Hey, stop!”

Erin smacked the skeleton on the back of the head. She immediately regretted it. The feel of smooth bone on her hand was—

The skeleton swiveled around to stare at Erin as she wiped her hand on her shirt. She pointed at it shakily.

“Don’t attack him. Unless I tell you to. Understand?”

It nodded. That was creepy. Erin shuddered.

“It is a competent warrior that will fight for you. And I do believe that is what you need, unless I am completely in error.”

He was right, but the way he was right was completely wrong. Erin just didn’t know how to explain that to Pisces. He clearly thought he’d done Erin a favor, and he was getting snippy in the absence of her unconditional gratitude. But then she noticed something else that was wrong.

“If it’s some kind of warrior, shouldn’t it at least have a sword?”

“Swords are expensive, Miss Solstice. And I am—regrettably—short on funding at the moment. Surely you could afford to equip your new bodyguard yourself?”

And she’d just given the short sword and buckler to Rags. Erin ground her teeth.

“Okay, fine. You’ve given me a pet skeleton. What does it do, exactly? Besides fight and scare me to death, that is?”

Pisces shrugged.

“Whatever you wish. It will obey any command you give it, but, ah, its capacity for thought is quite limited at the moment. That may improve with time. I have made several improvements over the traditional undead animation spells—”

“So it’s a special undead skeleton monster. Wonderful. And what happens if it breaks or goes nuts?”

“The spell will not wear out. The body might in the course of normal combat though, it is true. I would be happy to repair any damage done for a nominal fee—”

Erin shook her head.

“Skeleton repairs. That’s how they get you every time.”

Glumly, she stared at the skeleton. Was it because she’d gone nuts or just gotten used to this world? She wasn’t half as freaked out by the skeleton as she felt she should have been. And what was worse, she was even considering keeping the thing.

“And this is supposed to pay off your tab? All the gold you owe me?”

Pisces cleared his throat awkwardly.

“Well, the price of an advanced reanimation spell such as this is traditionally worth—”

He cut off fast as Erin turned her head slightly.

“I suppose a full repayment of my debts and some credit towards the future would not be too much to ask?”

“It might.”

Erin stared glumly at the skeleton. It stared back, waiting patiently for orders.

“Okay, let’s say I accept this. Won’t the Watch get mad?”

No response. Erin sighed.

“And this wouldn’t happen to be a body belonging to anyone in Liscor, would it? But no—it’s a Human skeleton. Except—”

She frowned. Now that she looked, the skeleton didn’t look quite right. Sure, it had a Human head, but its ribs looked a bit different than the books she’d read in biology class. Come to that, some of the bones around the pelvis looked subtly different.

“Hey, you didn’t rob a bunch of graves for this, did you, Pisces? Because if you did—hello?”

Scowling, Erin looked around. She saw no unhelpful mage, just the skeleton. Just an open door and a very noticeable absence of mage. He was gone.

Erin stared at the open door. Then she wondered if Pisces were still in the inn. Invisibility spells and all that. Quite deliberately, Erin walked around the room with her arms spread, trying to hit anything invisible and listening for sounds.

Nothing. He was probably gone. Probably. But Erin would be changing under a towel from now on.

She sighed, turned, nearly ran into the skeleton, and bit back a scream. It stared at her expectantly.

“Go over there!”

Obediently, the skeleton walked away, but it turned its head, waiting for orders. Erin tried not to freak out. She could not deal with this. Even if it did seem like an answer, it was the most back-handed, slap-to-the-face answer she’d ever found.

What to do? What to do? The first thing to do was get the skeleton out of the room, possibly out of her life. Erin stared grimly at the skeleton and realized she was going to lose any staring match.

She had an idea. Erin pointed at the skeleton.

“You. Skele-thing.”

It stared at her expectantly.

“Follow me.”

Erin walked into the kitchen, grabbed a few items, and shoved them at the skeleton, who had followed her.

“Carry this. And follow me.”

The skeleton walked behind Erin, silent as a ghost. Its bony feet clicked silently on the floorboards as she made her way upstairs. It was a part of the inn Erin seldom visited for one real reason:

The dirt.

It was everywhere. And while Erin could keep the bottom floor of her inn mostly clean thanks to her [Basic Cleaning] Skill, she hadn’t even bothered to take on the upstairs.

If cleaning the common room of the inn had been akin to a short jog in terms of effort, the upper floor would have been like summiting the Himalayas back-to-back. Even the skeleton seemed impressed by the layers of dirt in the room Erin led it to.

“Give me that.”

Erin pulled the bucket and old rag out of the skeleton’s hands. The days-old water slopped onto the floor, instantly dissolving several years’ worth of accumulations in a moment. She dipped the rag into the water, squeezed it, and then handed it to the skeleton. It took the rag and looked at it blankly. Erin pointed to the room.

“Clean this.”

The skeleton stared at her. Erin waved at the dusty rooms and mildewed boards.

“All of it. Clean it. Understand?”

Slowly, the skeleton looked at the rag. It looked at the floor. It tossed the rag on the floor and began wiping weakly with its foot. Erin shook her head.

“No! You take this—”

She grabbed the cloth and scrubbed energetically at the floorboards, removing a layer of dirt, dust, and black stains, which immediately turned the dustrag black.

“—And clean up. See? Just like that.”

The skeleton paused and then tried to copy Erin. She watched, correcting, pointing out errors.

“Scrub harder there. No—don’t move the rag like that. A smooth, circular motion. Like this. See?”

After a few minutes, Erin was begrudgingly impressed as the skeleton revealed a shiny patch of floorboards underneath the carpeting of detritus.

“Good.”

The skeleton paused and looked up at her. She waved her hand at it.

“Don’t stop! Keep going!”

It stared around the room, confused. Erin shook her head. She walked to the doorway and showed the skeleton the other rooms.

“See this? This entire floor. Clean it. Clean the floor, the walls, and the windows. Don’t stop until you’re finished!”

Erin stomped down the stairs, leaving the skeleton upstairs in the half-light. It stared down at the dustrag. Then the skeleton stared around the room. It was covered in residue left by moisture, open windows, dust, animal excrement, and rot. Even the ceiling was speckled or sometimes splashed with unfortunate stains. And this was one room of many.

Skeletons couldn’t sigh. It was a lung thing, as in, skeletons didn’t have them. But the fires in this undead’s eyes dimmed ever so slightly. Then the skeleton bent down and got to work.

It didn’t level that night. Skeletons couldn’t become innkeepers. But it did have something in its mind. Something unique to it. Words that had echoed when it was first created. Words that no undead had ever heard before.



[Unnamed, Level 1 Skeleton Warrior]



It wasn’t sure how it felt about that.





1.42


[Innkeeper Level 12!]



Someday, Erin was going to hear that annoying message in her head and jump off a cliff. But at least she’d gotten eight solid hours of sleep afterwards.

Blearily, Erin got up and wondered if she leveled because of the skeleton. Something to do with the skeleton? Did [Innkeepers] level up from getting bodyguards? Or…bouncers?

“Can skeletons bounce? Figuratively or literally?”

Erin blinked around at the room for several minutes. It was too early to think about complex things. She wanted a few things in no short order. Bathroom, food, and…that was about it.

The bathroom issue was hard. There were no real toilets in her inn. Erin had no idea why, but some shattered pottery upstairs and a terrible staining around the general area in each room made her think chamber pots had been in style here.

Erin wasn’t about to use a chamber pot. So she had gotten into the practice of digging (and then covering with bits of sawdust and dirt) a latrine around the back of her inn. It was messy, disgusting—and she really wasn’t happy about squatting in the open.

Something had to be done. That was what Erin decided as she finished her mercifully quick business and grabbed the roll of toilet paper. At least this world had something like toilet paper, if not as fluffy and easy on the skin. But the bathroom issue was bad. Someday, someone was going to walk up, and then Erin would die of shame or possibly stab them to death.

Once the bathroom issue was finished with, Erin could then wash her hands with what water she still had in one of her buckets and get breakfast. She was running low on water, too. That meant another trip to the stream, possibly combined with dodging flying fish if they were in a bitey mood today.

At this point, the thought of ducking a several-hundred pound monster full of teeth barely even bothered Erin. It was just another chore. She mechanically opened the shelves in her kitchen, wishing again she had the preservation runes. But they were expensive, and she ‘only’ had just under ten gold pieces.

Not a bad amount of money to have, really. Most families might have that much stored if they were lucky, according to Selys. If a week’s pay could be a single gold piece for some—well, it turned out fighting monsters was very profitable. If exceptionally dangerous. Erin supposed that checked out. Regardless, it was a good amount for food—a low amount for anything magical. She wondered how much it cost to build an outhouse.

Another thing to worry about later. She’d put it on her list.

Erin turned, jar of milk in one hand, and nearly tripped over her sleeping area. She grabbed a counter to steady herself and added moving her sleeping area to the list. She really, really didn’t want to trip someday and splash boiling water all over herself.

But it was such a nice sleeping area. And it would be so much…some work to move it. Plus, there were all the handy knives and weapons close-by if trouble came calling again.

She had a lovely little blanket and pillows she’d used to make a semi-permanent bedspread in a corner of the kitchen. True, it would have been nice to have a mattress, but Erin had been counting her coins until recently. Now that she could spring for one, Erin dreamed of a queen-sized bed with silk sheets. She’d never tried silk sheets, but maybe Krshia had them…? Probably not.

Still half-asleep, Erin walked around her kitchen, assembling a breakfast of sorts. There was actually a quite acceptable cereal that went well with the rich cow’s milk Erin bought. Sprinkle a little sugar in there and it would be delicious.

Since sugar was too expensive for that, Erin instead sliced up some blue fruit into the bowl. That was nearly as good.

Food, done. Erin walked out into the common room and set her bowl on the table. She pulled a chair out—and then noticed something was standing behind her. Slowly, she looked around.

Two glowing, blue flames in empty eye-sockets illuminated a fleshless head. Erin stared into the back of the skull and yellow teeth magically fixed into a permanent, deathly smile. A skeleton grinned at her, inches away from Erin’s face.

“Aaaaaaaaah!”

Erin screamed even as she punched. The skeleton caught a fist to the head and staggered backwards. It fell down. Erin clutched at her fist.

“Ow! Ow, ow—go over there!”

Obediently, the skeleton got up and walked over to the corner. It watched as Erin waved her hand around and cursed for a while. When she was done, Erin marched up and poked the skeleton in the ribs.

“Hey! I thought I told you to stay upstairs!”

It shook its head. Erin blinked and then got mad. She poked at the skeleton again, and her finger went straight into the rib cage. Shuddering, Erin pulled her finger back.

“I distinctly remember telling you to clean the rooms upstairs.”

The skeleton nodded. Erin glared.

“Well? Why are you down here?”

It stared at her. Erin supposed it was just as well the skeleton hadn’t responded. She glared at the staircase.

“Okay, wise guy. Let’s see just what happened while I was asleep.”

She stomped up the stairs, the skeleton following her close behind. Erin walked into one of the dirty rooms—

And stopped.

“Whoa.”

Something had changed. It was like one of those spot the difference games in newspapers, except that the difference here was everything. Erin blinked around at the spotless room and wondered if she was hallucinating. If she was, she preferred not to wake up.

Slowly, she stared at the walls, the floors, and the windows. All were spotless. All were clean. She could even see the original color of the floorboards. Instead of their dirty grey-brown, they’d transformed into a lustrous golden brown that was actually pleasing to look at.

“Okay. Okay, that’s, um—”

Erin turned and blinked at the skeleton.

“Did you do all the rooms like this?”

It nodded. The skeleton walked over to a corner of the room and picked something up. It brought a bucket over to Erin and a scrap. She squinted at it. It looked—it looked like a piece of a dustrag. A tiny piece.

“Where’s the rest of it gone, then?”

The skeleton shrugged. Erin wondered where the rest of the dirt and grime had gone. There was a sludgy substance in the bucket, but it looked like the skeleton had just tossed the grime out the window for the most part. Erin could get behind that cleaning style.

And each room was spotless. Well, there were some spots. Despite the skeleton’s best efforts, it still couldn’t clean away mildew. Some of the rotted boards still needed replacing, but Erin had [Basic Crafting] and a hammer. She was a god of minor repairs.

The entire upper floor was suddenly, miraculously habitable. Erin wandered around each room in a daze. She returned to the first room and wondered if the floors were softer here than in the kitchen. Well, the skeleton had done a good job after all. Erin wasn’t sure what to make of that. But the rooms were clean.

Then she had a thought. Erin looked up.

“Hey! You missed the ceiling!”

The skeleton stared at her and then up at the still dirty ceiling. Erin scowled at it.

“I said clean everything. The floor, the walls, windows…and the ceiling. I said that, right?”

The skeleton shook its head. Erin scowled at it.

“Well, I thought it. And you should have done it anyways!”

There was no way to tell if the skeleton was angry, sad, or…skeletons didn’t have emotions, right? But the flames in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second as Erin glared at it.

She felt bad. Not because she cared much about the skeleton’s feelings, but because Erin could at least tell when she was being a jerk. She relented.

“Okay. You did a good job.”

The skeleton seemed to brighten at that. It followed Erin downstairs. She sat down with a sigh at her breakfast and then paused. The skeleton was standing right next to her. She pointed.

“Go over there.”

It walked over to one corner. Erin eyed the skeleton and spoke again.

“Turn around.”

It did. At last, Erin was able to enjoy her meal without twin glowing eyes watching her every bite.

Breakfast came and went, fairly quickly too. Erin was hungry, but she wasn’t savoring her meal like she normally did. Instead, she was thinking. When she was done, she pushed her bowl back and stared with narrowed eyes at the skeleton. Well. What was the saying about lemons and life? If life gives you lemons…burn down the lemon factory? Something like that.

Anyways, it was time to get to work. Erin cleared her throat.

“Hey, you.”

Instantly, the skeleton turned around. She shook her head.

“Get the bucket and follow me, okay?”

She got up and walked into the kitchen as the skeleton immediately ran upstairs. Erin was rich enough now to have more than one bucket, and so both she and the skeleton were equipped as they left the inn and walked to the stream.

It was a quiet walk. Erin told the skeleton to follow her further back, and she tried to ignore it mostly as she strolled along. Maybe she could have talked to it, but—no. The day Erin started holding conversations with skeletons was the day she finally snapped.

They got to the stream. Erin told the skeleton to thoroughly wash its bucket out first before they filled both up with water. It was just as well she had a bucket for drinking water and a bucket for washing water anyways. She’d deliberately marked both buckets with some paint to avoid drinking…whatever was still clinging to the bucket the skeleton was lifting.

“Okay, let’s go.”

Erin reached for her bucket, but the skeleton got there first. It seized first the handle of its own bucket and then hers and tried to lift both. It strained and pulled, but it could barely move either full bucket more than an inch. Erin shook her head.

“See, that’s just sad.”

The skeleton clattered its teeth together. Erin shuddered. She grabbed her bucket and lifted it up. It was heavy, but she was stronger than the skeleton.

“Don’t do that. Take one bucket and follow me.”

Awkwardly, the skeleton hefted one of the full buckets of water and staggered after Erin. She walked quickly, trying to balance speed with avoiding losing too much water over the sides.

She was used to the trek from the stream to the inn, but her arm still vaguely ached by the time she got back. But ever since she’d acquired the [Lesser Strength] Skill, the trip had become far less painful. And this time, she didn’t even have to make two round trips.

“Okay! Water’s done. Now, let’s get some food.”

Erin left the two buckets inside the inn, grabbed a basket, and walked off. The skeleton followed her obediently as the two walked across the rolling grassy landscape. They walked for about six minutes before Erin threw her arm out and stopped the skeleton in its tracks. It stared at her, confused.

“Watch it. Rock Crab.”

She pointed. The skeleton looked and saw, about two hundred meters away, a large boulder slowly moving across the landscape. Underneath the large shell of rock, the skeleton could see massive legs slowly propelling the boulder around.

When the skeleton realized what the Rock Crab really was, it immediately raised its fists and tried to charge the slow-moving monster. Erin had to grab the skeleton by one bony arm.

“Hold it! What are you doing?”

The skeleton fought to run at the crab. Erin ordered it to stay still.

“Don’t try to fight that thing! It’ll eat you. Or—snap you in two like a bunch of twigs.”

Reluctantly, the skeleton subsided. It stared hard at the Rock Crab, which ignored both Erin and the skeleton as it wandered off. When it had disappeared over a hill, Erin let the skeleton go.

“Don’t be stupid. Come on and follow me.”

The skeleton walked after Erin. Eventually, they came to the blue fruit orchard. Erin showed the skeleton how to gather fruits.

“See the basket? Fill the basket.”

So saying, Erin handed the skeleton her basket and sat down. Instantly, the skeleton began running around the orchard, gathering up fallen fruit and kicking trees to make the fruit fall. Erin sat under a tree and took a quick nap.



——



Having a skeleton was quite useful. In a few minutes, the skeleton had filled Erin’s basket to overflowing. It carefully walked back to Erin, trying not to spill the ripe fruits.

Erin didn’t react as the skeleton approached. She was sleeping. The skeleton hesitated and then placed the basket at her feet. It stood and waited, but she slept on. She was truly asleep.

The skeleton hesitated. It seemed to be thinking. At last, it turned and began scanning the landscape around Erin. Was it checking for threats? Erin couldn’t tell.

One of her eyelids had been cracked open ever so slightly as the skeleton approached. Now that it was looking the other way, Erin sighed inaudibly and sat up. Well, at least the skeleton wasn’t going to try killing her in her sleep. She’d had a terrible night last night worrying the same thing. But Pisces seemed to have done an okay job on the skeleton. Still, she’d keep an eye on it.

It was useful, but she still didn’t quite trust it.

Erin clapped her hands together. The skeleton whirled around and then relaxed when it saw only Erin.

“Okay, good job. Show me the fruits—actually, I’m gonna teach you how to sort them. Then we’ll go back to the inn.”



——



Erin showed the skeleton where to place the basket of blue fruits and then stretched.

“Alright. Chores are mostly done. Now what?”

The skeleton stared at Erin. It certainly wasn’t going to come up with ideas on its own.

“I could go to the city.”

Erin mused, eying the skeleton. She really didn’t want to leave it alone just yet, but there was a lot more to do in Liscor than here. She was wondering if she could give the skeleton a simple task—like gathering Acid Flies from the traps—when she heard the door open.

She and the skeleton looked around. Erin saw Pawn and two Workers step through the doorway. She smiled and waved at them. The skeleton had a different reaction. It opened its jaw, and the twin flames in its skull flared.

“——!”

The skeleton charged Pawn and the two Antinium with a wordless, rattling whisper-shout. It was a sound that sounded like someone sighing, only far louder.

Pawn and the two Workers froze, uncertain. They backed into one another, but they were too big to slip out the door. The skeleton leapt at them—

“Hey!”

Erin’s fist caught the skeleton in the head and knocked the skull clean off the rest of the body. Pawn and the Workers stopped. The skeleton flailed around wildly. Then it stopped. Erin stared at it and groaned.

Oh no, she’d just broken the only magical tool she had! Again! She was about to curse when she saw the skeleton hadn’t collapsed like she thought it would. The body was still flailing its arms, and Erin saw it twisting about. Searching for…the skull?

Its head had rolled beneath a table. The skeleton’s body seemed to know where it was. Erin watched as it blundered over to its head, knocking over chairs and running into tables.

The skeleton picked up its head and placed it back on its neck. The lights reappeared in its eyes, and it stared at Erin.

“Bad!”

Erin didn’t know why she was talking to the skeleton like it was a dog. She pointed at it.

“You do not attack them. Got it?”

The skeleton hesitated and then nodded. The light in its eyes dimmed. Erin stared at it another second and then turned to Pawn.

“Sorry about that. I’ve got, uh, a skeleton problem.”

Pawn inclined his head.

“I bear no offense, Erin. And I thank you for protecting us.”

The two Workers bowed their heads as well. Erin waved her hands.

“No, it’s my fault. I just got this skeleton-thing, and I—sorry. Um, come on in.”

Awkwardly, she stood aside to let Pawn and the other Workers file into the inn. They glanced at the skeleton, who was still watching them. Erin stalked over and poked at the skeleton until it moved away.

“Right, how can I help you guys?”

“We have come to play chess if you are willing, Erin Solstice. We would also purchase flies for consumption.”

“Sure. No problem!”

Erin moved towards the kitchen and stopped. She pointed at the skeleton.

“Stay. There. Don’t do anything.”

When she returned with a heaping bowl of dead flies and blue juice, the Antinium had already chosen a table and set up a game of chess. Erin sat with them and began playing Pawn. It was a quick game as he’d tried a new move, which failed spectacularly. But Erin helped show him a better way to attack the enemy with the knight piece and let the other two Workers challenge her one by one.

As she played, she talked with Pawn.

“What’s happening with the Antinium? Are you guys bothered by all the Humans in the city as well?”

Pawn shook his head, watching as Erin started collecting the Worker’s pieces one by one.

“We work. We live. We die. All is unchanged among the Workers, Erin Solstice. But we hear of—things. Something happens below.”

“Below? You mean where the Queen lives?”

Pawn hesitated. The two Workers looked up at him and then down at the board.

“Yes. Our Queen moves. She is doing—something. We do not know what it is, but we sense it. And there is another Prognugator.”

Erin’s hand froze over a piece. Then she moved it.

“Really? Another one? This Prog—this guy, he’s taken over Klbkch’s old job?”

“Yes. He guards the Hive and watches. But no Worker has seen him yet. He walks above.”

“Right. Um. Right.”

Distracted, Erin lost a knight before she got back on track. She quickly crushed both Workers and then sighed.

“Okay. Good game, guys. You’re getting better.”

Pawn nodded.

“We level quickly. It is rare for Workers to level. We owe you a debt, Erin Solstice.”

“Really? I didn’t do much.”

“You teach. You help. You care. We know, and we learn from you how to be Human.”

Erin grinned mirthlessly.

“Being Human isn’t that great. But I’m glad I can help a bit.”

She suddenly had a thought. She glanced sideways at Pawn.

“And maybe you could help me? I’d like to hire you and the other Workers—if you’ve got time. I know this is your break day, but—”

Pawn shook his head.

“We would be happy to assist. What do you desire?”

“Bathroom.”

Pawn tilted its head.

“Bathroom?”

“I mean an outhouse.”

Erin tried to explain. She pointed outside.

“Right now I, uh—I have to dig a hole. Which isn’t fun. I don’t know if the Antinium have to go to the bathroom, but us Humans like a nice toilet seat.”

“Toilet seat?”

“…Never mind. How do Antinium, uh, excrete? Do you have anything like a bathroom?”

“We have designated areas where waste is accumulated. We recycle such products within the Hive.”

“Ah. Um. Humans don’t do that. Ever. And I’d really like a bathroom. Nothing fancy.”

Pawn and the two Workers nodded.

“We are familiar with the construction of such facilities. It would be a simple task to construct one for you. I am a [Carpenter]. Level 1.”

She recalled him saying that. But hadn’t he told her he was Level 1 a while back? He hadn’t levelled up since? Erin had passed her first level on, like, the second day of the job. Antinium really didn’t level. Erin blinked and then smiled.

“Oh. That’s—great. I’ve got some wood around back and nails and stuff. I can get more if you need it. Do you, um, need anything special?”

“We are Antinium. Building is in our nature.”

Sometimes, it was really hard to keep the conversation flowing with Pawn. Erin cleared her throat awkwardly.

“And how much will I owe you?”

Pawn hesitated.

“We would not wish to charge you for this service.”

Again, Erin wasn’t sure what to say to that. She thought for a moment.

“Tell you what—I’ll feed you and your friends for the rest of the week if you build it for me, no charge.”

Since there were four days left in the week, Erin thought this was a fair offer. Pawn apparently did too, because he nodded.

“It is agreed. We will begin at once.”

As one, the three Antinium stood up. They marched over to the door. Erin got up and then remembered. She turned her head and saw the skeleton still standing where she had left it.

“As for you—”

Erin glared at the skeleton. It didn’t quite flinch back from her.

“Do not attack my guests, got it? Not unless they’re attacking me or doing something dangerous. Otherwise, I’ll have the Workers toss you in the outhouse and bury you. Got it?”

The skeleton meekly nodded. Erin turned away.

“Okay, let’s get to work. Try not to get in the way.”



——



No matter how many times Erin saw it, she was always impressed by how efficient the Antinium were at…well…anything really. As soon as she’d chosen a good spot for the outhouse—just a little ways away from the inn where untoward smells wouldn’t be blown towards her—they immediately began excavating dirt and laying the groundwork for the outhouse.

Fortunately, Erin still had quite a bit of spare wood left over. And Pawn knew a good place to buy quality wood, so she gave them some money and let them go at it. She might have had a [Basic Crafting] as a Skill, but that didn’t mean she was good at constructing things. An outhouse was a bit beyond her capabilities.

And apparently, the Antinium didn’t need Skills, at least not for something like this. They were just good at building things, and their bodies were naturally suited for tasks like digging and machining. Four arms were better than two.

The outhouse was a simple affair, at least by modern toilet standards. A solid wood building stood upright, shielding its sole occupant from weather and prying eyes while a small pit caught whatever fell down through the toilet hole. It was functional, sturdy, and that was all Erin needed at the moment.

It took them all day, but Erin supposed Workers didn’t need to be fast. Then again, was building an outhouse from scratch really hard? Pawn and the Workers kept talking about a foundation whenever she brought them Acid Flies for a snack.

The skeleton scurried around, pushing dirt out of the way for the Antinium, refilling Erin’s water buckets, and checking her Acid Fly traps. She had to explain to it how to do everything the first time, which was a major pain, but once she had, the skeleton remembered how to do it.

Erin had to admit—grudgingly—that the skeleton was quite useful. It was efficient, in that it didn’t stop to take breaks or complain like a certain Human. Thanks to it, her inn was fully ready when the sun started lowering in the sky and the evening rush began.

Today, Rags and eight Goblins visited Erin’s inn. Then Pisces came by, full of his self-importance, the Antinium walked in and announced they were done with the outhouse, and Gazi appeared out of nowhere.

It was a record-breaking crowd that sat in The Wandering Inn. They barely occupied more than a fifth of the common room, although you wouldn’t know it, spread apart as they were.

Well, it was only to be expected really. The Goblins might not be too afraid of Erin, but Pisces was just another Human to them, and Gazi was bad news walking. They stayed away from her and the skeleton. Erin thought they’d all run when the skeleton opened the door for them, but Rags had kept them from fleeing into the hills.

The Goblins’ reaction had been the normal one. Pisces obviously hadn’t batted an eyelid at the walking skeleton, and the Antinium just treated the skeleton with a certain wariness. When Gazi had seen the skeleton, she’d just blinked her massive eye and frowned for a bit without comment. Now she kept staring from the skeleton to Pisces as she ate, but she didn’t directly engage the [Necromancer] in conversation.

So all of Erin’s guests sat more or less in their own bubble. The Antinium played more chess, Pisces scarfed down food, Gazi watched, the Goblins ate and chattered amongst themselves, and none of them talked with each other.

But they all spoke to Erin. Or at least—the Goblins grunted at her, and Rags nodded or shook her head when Erin talked. But everyone else talked to her.

“I noticed your new building. I take it is meant to act as a bathroom?”

Erin grinned at Gazi. She pointed at Pawn and the other Workers.

“Yeah. They just put it up today. Isn’t it great? Now I don’t have to keep squatting in the grass. Ahem.”

Gazi smiled as Erin coughed and blushed a bit.

“It is useful. Although I would warn you that maintaining such a spot can be difficult. You did well to build it away from water and your inn. I’ve seen many killed over fouling water, accidentally or not.”

Erin blinked a few times before nodding. Pisces seemed to be developing a third ear in his corner, but Erin just gestured to the Antinium.

“Pawn told me about all the problems an outhouse causes. They smell. And they attract flies. But I think I can solve that problem with the world’s greatest cleaning fluid.”

Gazi raised her single eyebrow, smiling slightly.

“And what would that be?”

“Acid. I have more than I can use, and it eats through anything that’s not stone or metal or glass really fast. I toss a bit of that in there every morning and voilà! Problem solved!”

Gazi blinked again. From his table, Pisces looked up and shook his head.

“Once again, your fascination with such a dangerous substance is alarming at best, Miss Solstice. I trust you at least have a few healing potions prepared for the day when you drop the acid on your person?”

Erin glared at him.

“I’m not going to be the one carrying jars of acid around. Too dangerous. I’ll make that guy do it instead.”

Erin pointed at the skeleton, who had just returned with another basket of blue fruit. She gestured to the kitchen, and it speedily walked inside.

Pisces stared at the skeleton incredulously.

“Are you—making it gather fruits? And you want to make it clean your outhouse? You do realize it is here for your protection, do you not?”

“Sure, sure. But it’s more useful helping out around the inn.”

Pisces scowled at Erin as she swept around with a refill of blue juice.

“That is a warrior skeleton, designed for combat.”

She glared back and filled his glass up with water.

“It’s weaker than I am! I punched it this morning, and its head came clean off!”

Pisces turned red and gave Erin what she recognized as his prelude-to-sulking expression.

“My creation is a work of art, but it must grow to its full potential first. It is not meant to be used for menial labor.”

Erin rolled her eyes.

“Menial labor is about all it’s good for. If I sent it out to try and kill one of those Rock Crabs, it’d get squashed in a heartbeat. You’re a hotshot [Necromancer], aren’t you? Can’t you raise a Level 15 skeleton or something?”

Pisces shook his head.

“I could certainly create a stronger undead—but not a higher level one. Do you—do you not understand the significance of this skeleton?”

“No. Is it that special?”

He blinked at her.

“Ah. Well, it is.”

Gazi spoke up. Her eye strayed towards the skeleton, which paused as it brought bowls of Acid Flies out for the Antinium. She murmured into her drink.

“A Level 1 [Skeleton Warrior].”

Pisces nodded. Gazi blinked at him and tipped her cup in some sort of acknowledgement. Erin didn’t get it, but Pisces appeared incredibly smug and self-satisfied all of a sudden. Right up until he saw Gazi staring at him. Then he went white.

Yet all Gazi Pathseeker did was lift a cup to her lips. She addressed Pisces and Erin at the same time.

“I would not mention that fact ever again were I you two. Either of you. Even that Drake would behead the [Necromancer] for this.”

“And you won’t? I thought you were a famous adventurer…”

Gazi’s smile was pointed, and her large eye flickered to Pisces, who looked ready to run. Yet she just shook her head slightly, sending her braided hair swaying.

“I do not care. If anything…it may suit me very well. Nor am I of this continent or Terandria. Mine is a different land, and I have known [Necromancers] and their kind. An accomplishment is an accomplishment.”

This time, Erin had to ask. She leaned over the table.

“You said you saw people stabbed over fouling water? So your place is like—desert-y?”

Pisces snorted, and Gazi gave Erin a frown as if trying to tell if Erin was making fun of her.

“Chandrar is not entirely desert, but my adopted homeland borders a vast desert, yes. Hence my familiarity with what this young [Necromancer] has done. But even Khelt’s King would call it extraordinary. If he did not behead that one for the deed.”

Pisces looked uncertain whether or not he should be sick or pleased, and Erin decided she should drop the topic.

“Fine. It’s great. But I still wish it was stronger.”

She grumbled her way around the room, topping off glasses with her pitcher. Pisces looked relaxed enough to focus on his meal. Only after a good few minutes had passed and he was engrossed in wolfing down pasta did Gazi stop Erin again. She murmured to her as Erin passed by her table, and Erin saw her twisting a brooch that had been hidden in her armor.

The air dulled or felt heavy, and Erin felt a strange hush in the air. Pisces didn’t seem to notice, though Rags frowned at Erin and picked at one ear with a claw. Gazi spoke louder, then, gesturing to her meal, though her words didn’t match her actions.

“So, how did you meet that young man? Where does he hail from?”

“Pisces?”

Erin glanced at Pisces. He was smiling at his skeleton as it moved about the room.

“Oh, he’s just this weird guy I met a while ago. He’s—well, I guess he’s a good mage. Does necromancy stuff, but the skeleton is the first undead thing I’ve ever seen him do. He also does other spells. Why?”

Gazi stared at Pisces, and then her eye moved away as he looked towards her. She nodded imperceptibly at him as she let Erin fill her glass.

“He is—talented.”

“Oh.”

Gazi nodded. After a moment, Erin shrugged and walked away. Really, what were you supposed to say to that?



——



About an hour had passed, and Erin was continuing to innkeep while her patrons ate, chatted, and, occasionally, used the new outhouse. Gazi didn’t do much from her seat, but her main eye kept following Pisces, the skeleton, and Erin.

Then, as the sun began to touch the mountains and the light truly began to fade from the sky, Gazi’s main eye swiveled towards one window. She tapped her lips and then smiled again.

Erin noticed the half-Gazer getting up and leaving coins on the table. Gazi nodded to her as Erin bustled over.

“Pardon me, Erin, but I must attend to some business. I will return shortly.”

“Oh, sure. Have fun?”

Gazi smiled and left quickly. Erin shrugged and went back to serving. About ten minutes later, she heard someone knocking at the door.

“Come in!”

The door opened. Erin turned with a smile.

“Hey, welcome!”

The male, Human adventurer who opened the door smiled broadly at her.

“Thank you. Me and my friends were looking for a place to stay and—”

He caught sight of Rags and the Goblins first. The adventurer swore and grabbed at this sword.

“Goblins!”

Erin’s stomach lurched. The adventurer fell back, and his two companions—two other burly adventurers in armor—immediately seized their weapons. Rags and her crew looked up, suddenly tense. Pawn and the Workers froze in their game. Pisces was already gone.

“No, no, wait! Don’t do anything!”

Dropping her pitcher of juice on a table, Erin ran forwards, putting herself between the adventurers and the Goblins.

“They’re friendly! Don’t attack!”

The first adventurer stared at her. He was wearing a metal helmet that made his head look vaguely pot-shaped.

“What are you, crazy? They’re Goblins!”

His two friends shifted behind him. One exclaimed as he caught sight of Pawn and the Workers.

“It’s the bugs! And—a skeleton?”

The first adventurer was white in the face, whether with rage or fear it was hard to tell. He glared at Erin, hand tight on his sword hilt.

“What’s going on here?”

“Look, everyone chill! Calm down! These Goblins are peaceful. Didn’t you read the sign—?”

The third adventurer, a huge man who dwarfed the other two, turned red in the face. He growled at Rags and her Goblins, all of whom were standing, weapons raised.

“Shut up! Those creatures aren’t peaceful. They’re monsters! I’ve lost good friends to them!”

He went for his axe. Erin grabbed his hand.

“No, wait—let me—”

“Get off!”

The burly adventurer growled and threw Erin off him. He shoved her back, and Erin crashed into a table. She blinked stupidly up at the ceiling as the world spun for a moment. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw a flash of movement.

The adventurers were moving towards the Goblins, weapons raised, when the skeleton leapt over a table, charged the first adventurer, and smashed into him. The undead skeleton was unarmed, but it just raised one bony fist and sunk it straight into the helmeted adventurer’s head.

The metal faceguard caught the skeleton, but it couldn’t protect the man from being bowled over as the skeleton rushed him. The undead kicked, and the sword flew out of the man’s hands. He cursed as the two other adventurers spread out. One of his friends pulled out his sword, but suddenly Rags and the other Goblins covered him.

The big adventurer roared and raised his axe, but Erin tackled him. She tried to pull his arm down, but he was like a piece of granite. He punched her in the side, and Erin fell off him. That hurt. Not as much as being stabbed, but she couldn’t breathe. He snarled at her, and then Pawn was in front of him. The Antinium swung two fists on his left side, and the adventurer stumbled backwards.

The adventurer on the floor cursed and swung at the skeleton, trying to get to his feet. The skeleton leaned back as the adventurer swung wildly. When it punched the man in the side of the head, he didn’t shift much. But the skeleton punched and punched and punched—

The helmeted adventurer caught the skeleton’s foot as it swung at his head. He growled and heaved upwards, and the skeleton toppled over. Then he reached for his sword.

His hand had just closed over the hilt when Erin walked over and kicked him in the side of the head. Down he went again, considerably harder than when the skeleton had hit him.

She looked around. The second man was fighting with the Goblins, slashing at them while they danced around the chairs and tables. He didn’t have any room to swing, but they had a lot more freedom. They lunged at him, cutting his legs, battering him with clubs, throwing plates at his face—

A Worker crashed into a table next to Erin. It lay on its back, stunned, before it got up. She looked over. The big adventurer was fighting all three Antinium at once as they surrounded him.

He swung at Pawn, but Pawn caught both fists and then hit back with two more. The big adventurer blinked and then shoved the Antinium back. Pawn went flying, but two more Workers closed in. He battered at them, but the Antinium were far tougher than they were strong.

It was all a mess. Erin didn’t know what to do, but when one of the adventurers grabbed Rags and threw her to the ground, she moved. He stomped on her stomach once as the Goblin cried out in agony. Erin raised her fist, and then the skeleton smashed the adventurer in the back of the head with a chair.

Down he went. Now only the biggest adventurer was left, but he was somehow managing to take on all comers by himself. He hit one of the Workers in the chest so hard the Antinium’s carapace cracked and then punched the skeleton into the ground before kicking the undead in the chest. Two ribs shattered as the Goblins swarmed around the man.

Erin hesitated and then ran inside the kitchen. She came out with a heavy object in her hands, just in time to see the skeleton crashing into another table, the axe buried in its chest.

The biggest adventurer kicked a Goblin several feet, backhanded Pawn, and snarled. He turned, and the flying frying pan cracked him straight in the forehead. Erin felt like she’d wrenched her shoulder with that throw, but her Skill had placed the pan right where she wanted it to go.

The fight was over. Erin still had to call the skeleton back and stop Rags and her Goblins from knifing the downed adventurers. The skeleton was trying to stomp on the helmeted man while Pawn and the other two Workers picked each other up and assessed their injuries.

Erin stared around the inn. She looked at her skeleton, with the axe hanging out of its shattered rib cage, the injured Goblins, the downed adventurer trio, Pawn and his injured workers, and then at her common room. Half the tables and chairs were splintered beyond repair, and all of her food and dishes had been strewn about the room.

She felt like crying. But the first adventurer was starting to wake up. Erin stared at the groaning men on the floor and pointed at the skeleton.

“You. Bucket.”

It hesitated and then marched into the kitchen. Erin looked around. She walked over and picked up the frying pan.



——



The cold splash of water woke up all three men in one go. They spluttered into wakefulness, gasping, only to realize they weren’t drowning. Instead, they were on the floor of an inn.

The three adventurers stared up into the face of justice. In this case, it was the back of a cast iron frying pan. Erin stood over them, flanked by a group of Goblins on her left and a Skeleton and three of the horrific ant-monsters known as Antinium on her right.

“You wrecked my inn.”

Erin stared down at the three men. She was trembling. Half with nerves, but the other half was sheer rage.

“You—”

The helmeted adventurer hesitated. He struggled to get to his feet, feeling for his sword. He saw it in the skeleton’s hands. He pointed a trembling finger at the skeleton, backing away as his two friends got to their feet.

“What kind of inn is this? It’s full of monsters!”

“They’re not monsters! These Goblins are my guests, and no one hurts them here! Didn’t you read the sign?”

The biggest adventurer lumbered to his feet. His fists were clenched, and he was red down to his neck. Rags and the other Goblins retreated from him, but Erin saw Rags pulling out a jar full of green liquid. She shook her head at the Goblin.

“You’re crazy! You—you freak! You’re feedin’ these freaks that kill Humans! And you’re feedin’ bugs and an undead monster! We oughta burn this place down and turn you in to the City Watch!”

“Burn down my inn? I don’t think so.”

Erin gripped the handle of the frying pan tighter. The Antinium loomed behind her, and the two smaller adventurers stepped back.

“You bitch!”

The big adventurer shouted at Erin. His spit practically covered the skeleton interposing itself between Erin and him.

“This ain’t over! We’re gonna round up all the adventurers in the city and come back here. Then we’ll see if you want to protect these freaks!”

“I don’t believe that will happen.”

Someone tapped the big adventurer on the shoulder. He whirled around, threw a fist, and nearly screamed as a grip like steel crushed his wrist.

Gazi the Omniscient stared at the adventurer she had caught like an entomologist studying an insect caught in their backyard. Without much interest, she flicked the man’s hand away. When she turned to look at Erin, she smiled slightly.

“Erin Solstice. You are full of surprises.”

Erin blinked.

“Oh. Gazi.”

The two adventurers behind the big man reacted to the half-Gazer’s name—and her eye—but the bigger man was still caught up in his rage.

“If yer gonna protect this monster-loving b—”

Gazi didn’t move. She didn’t move, but her eye twitched. Its yellow pupil seemed to widen and glow for a moment, and Erin felt a flash of unease. Gazi was suddenly terrifying for no real reason. And she wasn’t even looking at Erin. The effect on the adventurers—particularly the big man—was immediate. They shuddered, paled, and backed away from her.

“No one will attack this inn. Or I will find you and you will suffer. And you will all leave now.”

Helmet adventurer shuddered. His eyes flicked to his sword, still in the skeleton’s hand.

“But—”

Gazi’s eye swiveled, and her large yellow pupil fixed on the adventurer’s face, and the words stopped.

“In the name of Reim—begone.”

The adventurer stared for one second into Gazi’s large eye. Then he ran. He didn’t say a word, and his friends ran after him, legs and arms pumping. Erin watched them race down the hill so fast one tripped and went flying, but they got up and kept running even after slamming into the ground. Gazi just turned to Erin and smiled with her lips closed as if nothing had happened.

“I am glad that you are unharmed.”

“What?”

Erin blinked at Gazi stupidly and then realized she was still holding her frying pan. Lamely, she put it on a table.

“Um, thanks. Really. You saved us there.”

Gazi flicked her hand dismissively.

“I merely prevented them from causing more trouble. But you would have handled them most admirably had I not been here.”

Her smaller eyes moved around the room.

“Still, I see that they have caused much damage. I apologize. I should have forced them to repay you for the damages.”

“Oh, it’s nothing—”

Erin broke off. Rags limped over to her, clutching at her stomach and poked her in the side. The Goblin offered Erin a bag of coins.

“Oh. Oops?”

Rags shrugged at Erin and then winced. She clutched at her stomach where the adventurer had stomped on her. Erin immediately forgot about the money. She bent down, staring anxiously at the Goblin.

“Are you okay? I have some healing potions I could split—”

Rags shook her head. Clutching at her ribs, she pulled something out of her pouch. A healing potion. The Goblin pulled the stopper out and drank a mouthful of the purple, brackish liquid.

Erin was sure the Goblin didn’t own any healing potions. She was also sure that it wasn’t her healing potion or Gazi’s. She looked at the other Goblins and saw they were doing the same with a few healing potions as well. She knew exactly where they’d come from.

The adventurers had come here with belt pouches and carry bags along with their armor and weapons. And while they’d left with their armor, it seemed someone had cut away their belts and bags of healing potions while they’d been downed. The Goblins were already fighting over the spoils.

Erin had a feeling that she was going to get the blame for most—all of that. But right now, looking at the injured people in her inn, she didn’t really care.

“Here.”

She righted a table and made Pawn and the injured Workers sit down. Erin found some bandages in her packs, helped pull the axe out of the skeleton’s rib cage, and let Pisces get to work on the skeleton. It seemed he had been invisible during the entire confrontation.

She was so busy attending her friends—saying thank you and feeding them a second dinner—that she never noticed that Gazi had left the inn.



——



Gazi the Omniscient travelled back to Liscor, the ground blurring beneath her feet. She had no further business at The Wandering Inn at the moment. Erin Solstice was too busy attending to her wounded patrons for conversation, and Gazi had seen all she needed.

More importantly, she had found one. At last, she had found one. And not just one.

“Two.”

She smiled to herself. She’d searched far and wide for individuals worthy of waking up her lord and liege. For years. And she had despaired. But now she had found one. Not just one; two.

“A mysterious child with a unique Skill, and a [Necromancer] who can create new undead.”

Erin Solstice. She was unlike any Human Gazi had met before, save one. She had met only one other being who could unify so many races outside of her own. And that she had stepped in to protect them against her own kind only made her rarer in Gazi’s opinion.

But there was more to her than even that. Erin’s origins, her ways of thinking, and yes, even the [Immortal Moment] Skill Gazi had never seen on an individual before were all unique. She was worthy. The mage was also worthy, but in a different way. He was simply a genius.

“But she is different.”

Gazi frowned, letting her single eyelid droop over her central eye. Yes, Erin Solstice was different. She passed through the city gates, nodding at the guard who stared at her and slowed to walk idly through the streets.

Erin Solstice. She was the one, and if Gazi had to choose, it would be her. But it was better not to choose. Better to wait and lay plans. Gazi could act now of course, but if she wanted to do this properly, it would take time.

Time and patience were both things Gazi did not have, but she did not want to ruin things now, right when she had found not one, but two worthy beings. She yearned to begin, but patience—patience was a virtue she had learned to practice.

Yes, perhaps it was better to wait. She had come far over the course of thousands of miles and countless years. Her King still slept; he would wait a while longer to be woken. Those she brought must be truly worthy of his attention. Yet she had a good feeling this time.

At the very least, Fetohep of Khelt alone would pay a king’s ransom for Pisces—a [King]’s ransom a hundred times over. Whether he made the boy rich or had him executed—that alone might be enough to wake her King. Perhaps. Perhaps…though Fetohep had every reason not to want her King to wake.

As Gazi walked through the streets, she noticed she was being followed. She kept her main eye straight ahead, but her lesser eyes could detect movement around her. Gnolls. Two shadowed her at a distance, pretending to be late-night shoppers and pedestrians going home.

No doubt they were courtesy of a certain Gnoll [Shopkeeper]. She had doubtless organized them to tail Gazi, unaware perhaps of the half-Gazer’s ability to see all. Or perhaps she knew and was letting Gazi know she was being watched. Either way, it mattered little. The Gnolls were the least experienced of Gazi’s watchers, but they were hardly the only ones keeping an eye on her.

Pallass had sent their observers…for a time until they realized the cost was too high. They had their own kind of watcher, the Cyclops, though his role and Gazi’s—and their natures—were far different. She had passed through his realm mostly quietly. He knew better than to make unnecessary foes.

But it was the Gnolls’ presence that decided Gazi. Not because they were dangerous, but because it meant there was more to Erin than even her eyes could uncover. She would wait. Wait, and learn more about this strange Human. Perhaps there was another worthy one. Three was better than two.

As Gazi passed by the market street, she noticed a flicker of movement. A small Human grabbed several items from a stall while the shopkeeper was looking the other way. Gazi pretended not to see, but one of her lesser eyes tracked the female Human as she darted away.

The thief ducked out of sight in the alleyway, but Gazi’s eye wasn’t weak enough to be stopped by mere objects like walls at close range. Her large eye moved, and she saw not only the thief’s figure, but her name and nature. Such was the power of Gazi’s eye.

But in this case, Gazi was disappointed. She shook her head.

“Ah. Just a [Princess].”

She turned her eye away. She had no time for Human royalty. Petty lords and princesses of small nations could not arouse her ruler’s interest.

Gazi cast her eye upwards. She saw the changing winds and, miles overhead, saw the cold front sweeping in at speeds even her eye had trouble tracking. Yes, winter was coming. And quickly too. This land had few seasons save for the rainy one, but the fell chill would still freeze the land for a week at least. Time, then, to wait and observe both Humans.

“Yes, time.”

The adventurers had been a stroke of good luck. Their foolishness had given Gazi plenty of insight into Erin’s nature. She would ensure no reprisals came—at least in the form of a mob—but she would continue watching Erin Solstice.

She wanted to know everything about her.



——



Erin sat in her inn, staring at the recently cleaned room. Half of the tables and chairs were now fireplace fuel, but at least the spilled food and broken dishes had been cleaned up. She’d buy new ones from Krshia tomorrow.

Everyone was gone. They’d limped off or walked back to the city or, in Pisces’ case, done his disappearing act. They were gone, and Erin was left alone.

With the skeleton, of course.

It was fully repaired and sweeping up dust. Erin stared at it as it worked. It paused as it glanced up and saw her staring.

“Yeah. You don’t like it either, huh?”

After a moment, the skeleton got back to work. It stood up, dustpan in hand, and walked outside to dump the dust. Then it came back in and stood to attention, staring at Erin.

She sighed. The skeleton looked at her expectantly.

“Skeletons. You know, I hated biology class in school. The skeleton there creeped me out, and it didn’t move around all the time.”

No response. Well, Erin was getting used to that.

“I don’t like dead things. And I don’t really trust you.”

The light in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second. Erin sighed again.

“But. I guess you’re alright.”

The flickering sparks in the skeleton’s eyes ignited. Erin nodded to herself.

“I’ll keep you after all. You’re useful, and you can fight. Sorta. Just don’t do anything stupid, got it?”

After a beat, the skeleton nodded obediently.

“Cool. Now I guess—I guess you’ll need a name?”

No response. But the skeleton seemed expectant. Erin scratched her head. She really needed to sleep, but this was important.

“What would be a good name for a skeleton? Papyrus…? Nah. You’re not nearly cool enough for that.”

The skeleton didn’t react. Erin tilted her head, thinking hard. She snapped her fingers.

“I guess I’ll just call you Clatter. No—Claptrap! But even you’re not half as annoying as that…thing.”

Erin scratched at her head as she began pacing around the room. The skeleton’s fiery, blue eyes followed her as she began throwing names out at random.

“Mr. Bones? Way too generic. How about Carnage? But that sounds horrible. Silent Steve…? No. Smitty Werbenjagermanjensen? Too long.”

After a while, the skeleton turned around and walked upstairs. It still had the order to clean, and it supposed upstairs counted as ‘the inn’. So the skeleton began cleaning a decade’s worth of accumulated filth from the ceiling as it heard Erin still talking to herself down below.

“How about Napoleon? But you’re not short. Skeletron? But I’d get confused. Paul Hendrickson the Fifth? Whitey? Wait, is that racist?”

The skeleton quite deliberately tuned Erin’s voice out of its head, at least as far as it could ignore the voice of its master. It scrubbed the ceiling with the fragment of the dustrag hard, wishing—as much as it could wish—that it held a weapon instead. Erin had made it leave the sword and axe in the kitchen while it was cleaning.

It had no will. Skeletons weren’t supposed to have free will. But they weren’t supposed to level either, and the [Skeleton Warrior] was now Level 2. It didn’t know how to feel about that. It had one function: to serve. If leveling helped in that capacity, it would level.

It just wished Erin would stop talking.

“Bojangles. Bonerama. Bonehead. Friedman? Spinal Tap. Harambe. Jack? Jack Sparrow? Jack Skellington? Mr. Skeleton? Smiley Face?”

A pause. The skeleton did not sigh in relief.

“…Mike?”



[Innkeeper Level 13!]

[Skill – Loud Voice obtained!]





1.43 R


“Awaken, Human.”

I’ve listened to my share of alarm clocks over the years. When I was a kid, my parents gave me an old-fashioned one* that I had to wind up constantly or it wouldn’t go off. First chance I got, I switched it out for a digital alarm and then my iPhone.



*Vintage, which matters to no one unless you’re a hipster. And if you are, don’t talk to me.



I like to wake up early to run—thus as I got older, my alarm clocks got louder. The one in my room I bought because my iPhone wasn’t powerful enough. It could wake up the house if I left for my morning run and forgot to turn it off. And my folks have a big house.

But no alarm clock or blaring fire alarm has ever gotten me into the waking world so quickly. The instant I heard those two words, I woke up. It was like magic*.



*Probably because it was magic.



I raise my head and instinctively brace for agonizing pain. I don’t feel any, which is alarming in itself. I should be in incredible pain—or dead. And if I am dead, who woke me up?

Please let it not be an old white guy who calls himself God.

“Sit up.”

Again, the voice of whomever-this-is does exactly what it says on the tin. I get up without even realizing I’m doing it. I was lying on the ground, but now the world tilts the right way up for me. What’s going on?

I remember collapsing onto the floor. On paved marble tiles to be exact. Paved marble tiles in the middle of a vast cavern, surrounded by a treasury/armory/mage’s laboratory/library of some kind.

I’d like to look around, but my body is frozen. I sit completely still, unable to look around. I can see rows of dark bookshelves ahead of me, and then someone walks into view.

There’s a man—yes, a man standing in front of me. The strangest, most attractive—

Attractive? Him? He’s an old guy with a beard. I hate older men, mainly because they remind me of my dad. But this man—he’s different. Different from anyone I’ve met.

For one thing, he looks amazing in multiple senses of the word. His hair is a pale white, but not gray. Rather—silvery? It has a luster about it that makes me wonder if he uses this world’s equivalent of hair gel. But even the greatest beauty pageant contestants and supermodels of my world don’t have hair like that.

And he looks like a model. An Olympian athlete past his prime but with the same body. He looks like the kind of person Renaissance sculptors would make statues of, but even David wasn’t this in shape.

Plus, he’s wearing robes that look like they’re kin to the ones Ceria bought. Magical robes that look like silk and shine—except that his clothing is even shinier*.



*I think my brain’s literally shutting down. This is wrong. People…a person shouldn’t be this perfect.



And then I look up and meet a pair of eyes that are blue in one orb and violet in the other.

No. Blue and violet? What, am I in elementary school? The colors I see are far deeper than that. I look into this man’s eyes—

And I see a tiny bit of magic caught forever.

It should be impossible, but it’s like staring into one of those nebulas in outer space. The amethyst and azure—no, even those words aren’t good enough. When I see the celestial colors in his eyes, the words heliotrope and cerulean spring to mind. Fancy words to describe a wordless sight.

The colors shift together in his irises, exactly like the ever-changing colors of the solar clouds. Nebulae. The pupils shift towards me, and I feel like someone’s tagged me with a cattle prod*. I still don’t know how I’m uninjured or what this place is, but I can guess by assuming what he is.



*I don’t know what that actually feels like firsthand but—it’s like my entire body is being shocked, and not just in a bad way.



A mage. Or maybe the word sorcerer or wizard applies here. Because if this guy is a mage, he’s an archmage or a magus.

The mysterious old mage-guy crooks one finger upwards at me.

“Stand, please.”

I push myself up and onto my feet easily, again sans pain or the gaping holes in my body I know should be there. Why?

Now that I’m on my feet, I see I’m also shorter than this man by at least a few inches. And I’m six foot one. He’s tall, handsome, and even if his skin isn’t dark it’s—

I blink for a second. Odd, I could have sworn his skin was white, but it’s darker than that. He looks…middle eastern? Yeah, a moderate olive brown whitened by a long time out of the sun maybe. But I could have sworn he had white skin when I first saw him.



(His scales glow in the light. The golden Dragon looks at me and—)



No—it’s the light. I want to look up, but the light is changing in the room somehow. It’s as if there’s a massive color filter over the room making everything appear different. Is there a massive mirror or something…?

But then the mage looks me up and down, and I realize something else is wrong. Namely, something is wrong with my clothes.

My flesh is healed, but the fabric is weak. And when a bunch of pterodactyl-type birds start trying to shred you from above and Gargoyles are spitting stone chunks at you, a wardrobe malfunction is sort of inevitable.

One of the stone shards must have cut me on the right shoulder, because my bra strap’s been sliced in two. That wouldn’t be so bad—except that an important part of my shirt is missing too. Right around the chest area.

It’s cold in the cavern. But the old guy gives my breast one dismissive look and sighs. He doesn’t even seem vaguely interested, which annoys me more than I feel relieved he’s not some pervert-sorcerer*.



*Look, obviously I care about the dignity of women. Anyone whistling at me on the street I have an urge to throw into a trashcan. But when nakedness occurs, you expect at least some kind of reaction out of any male, gay or straight or asexual. Even if it’s covering their eyes and turning away politely or staring like a monkey. But this guy doesn’t even blink. Even a blind guy would be happier to be told there was a naked woman in front of him. Respect is very important, but I’d like some acknowledgment I’m more important than a rock.



“Ah, of course. Clothing.”

He tsks and raises a finger. I’d really love to dodge or ask what he’s doing, but I’m helpless.

“[Repair].”

His finger doesn’t even glow. Unlike when Sostrom repaired my iPhone, I can see no flash of magic. But magic does happen.

In an instant, my bra strap slithers back over my shoulder and reconnects itself. I feel, without being able to turn my head, my clothing growing to cover the missing spots, sealing over in a matter of seconds.

That felt…incredibly creepy. But I’m happier not to be catching a cold, and the old mage seems happy too. He nods, once. Then he looks at me again.

“Human, be silent and still. Do not speak or move save that I require a response. I will ask you questions, and you will answer to the best of your abilities, promptly and audibly. You will perform no magic and act in no violent ways while you are in my home.”

He pauses. Wow. Most people just say hello when they meet me or ask me if I want a pair of shoes.

“Also, do not defecate, befoul, or otherwise sully this place in any way, shape, or form. And stand up straight.”

Okay, I’m not sure what Humans he’s used to dealing with, but—my spine is already straightening. I can’t even glare at him. Crap. Is this some kind of magical hypnosis spell? But now he’s walking around me slowly. Eying me like a piece of fish on sale at a supermarket.

“I care not about your name, but you are a Runner, a messenger, yes?”

“Yes.”

I tried to say, ‘yes, asshole’, but apparently no violence means no backchat either. He nods like he expected that reply.

“Very well. But then tell me—why did you risk such a dangerous request? Three of your kind have perished already attempting to reach my home. What drove you to risk death for this delivery?”

Again, the response comes out of me instantly before I even have time to really think about my reply.

“For the reward. Eighty gold pieces.”

Now he looks disappointed.

“Simply for that? No other reason?”

Huh. Was this all some sort of test? Well, motor mouth, do your thing.

“I took the request for the money, but also because I wanted to challenge myself. There are no other requests in the Runner’s Guild I could have taken, either. I am being blocked from other deliveries by fellow Runners, and this is the only request I could take.”

“Hm. I see. How very mundane.”

He shakes his head. In my head, I’m sort of annoyed. It’s nice to know even an archmage former athlete can be an arrogant jerk.

“Very well, then tell me: where do you come from? I have not seen features nor skin color such as yours on this continent for…a long time. Where were you born?”

Ah, now the hard questions come. But I’m ready for this. Well, not this obviously, but after meeting Lady Magnolia, I thought of the best way to deal with someone who can tell whether you’re lying or compel you to tell the truth. Either way, the only deception is in part of the truth.

“I was born in Oakland, California.”

He pauses. A brief frown creases the mage’s face.

“I am not familiar with either name. What nation does this Oakland California hail from?”

“America.”

“Hm. Another new nation. How troubling. The name feels more Chandrarian, but I suppose…well, a map should sort this out.”

The man strokes his silvery beard. Then he shakes his head.

“I suppose it doesn’t matter. Now, I wish for you to answer this question freely, but also honestly.”

He points at me.

“My spells of appraisal and identification told me nothing of your class or level when I cast them. And yet you are neither undead nor construct, and you are entirely Human. Why can I not see your class?”

At last, it seems like I can say what’s on my mind. I work my jaw and open my mouth for a few nice obscenities.

“—”

…Well damn. It looks like I still can’t just insult him, and I need to tell the truth. Fine. I look the mage in the eye and talk.

“I stopped myself from leveling. You can’t see my class because I don’t have one.”

For the first time since I’ve laid eyes on his face, the man looks genuinely startled. He tilts his head to peer more closely at me, and I notice that he has pointed ears. Oh. Of course.

“You have no level? And you refuse to accept a class? Why? Fascinating. Are we back to this again? You don’t hail from Zeres, do you? No?”

I have no idea what he means. I shake my head and, again, answer truthfully.

“I don’t like being controlled. And I think—yeah, I think that classes and levels are a way for the world or some system to control people. I want no part of it. And—it feels like cheating.”

Again, I’m treated to an expression of frank incredulity. It’s the first time I’ve ever articulated my feelings as well, and even I’m surprised by my answer. Cheating. I guess that’s really one of the big reasons why I don’t like the entire basis of this world. But people level or die, which is probably why I’m getting the fish-eye from him.

“You refused to level up out of principle. Because you think…it empowers you too much?”

“Yeah, more than other people.”

He looks fascinated by this. Suddenly, the man sits, and I see a shimmering chair made out of light appear, an armchair, which materializes in the blink of an eye. As if sitting on light is normal, the man puts his fingers together like some kind of pretentious academic. Which he now sounds like.

“But everyone is capable of levelling. The purest form of meritocracy, some call it. A few have considered there are benefits to doing without, but I have never met someone who denies levelling purely based on a disdain for its merits. You do not crave the power of Skills? At all?”

“Well, I think I’m doing pretty good on my own. I’m in good shape, I’m smart enough, and I’m faster than Runners with Skills—”

A guffaw escapes the old man’s lips so fast he catches himself. He laughs in my face—then stops.

“Oh. You are serious. Incredible. Well, one supposes extraordinarily misguided egos do appear rarely. You have not seen what levels can do then, young woman. How very narrow your worldview is.”

He smirks at me. I stare blandly back because my face won’t work…but with inner spite in my soul.

“Big talk for someone who doesn’t know where America is. Or Oakland or California.”

Cheap shots, I know, but it hits alright as his cheeks turn pink. That little bit of sass makes me feel better. He shoots me a frosty look.

“Young nations rising and falling is hardly something to keep note of for someone of my lifespan…”

His hands go up, and he checks his ears quickly as if making sure they’re there?

“…As a half-Elf. Yes. Philosophical inquiry into the function of classes and levels is far more pertinent to any discussion. Although—you probably don’t even know what I’m talking about, do you? That’s a rhetorical question. Don’t answer it. Of course, you don’t know what a rhetorical question is, either. Human education being what it is—”

For a moment, the mage’s eyes trail off. So he’s a haughty half-Elf recluse. From being the imperious mage he becomes something like what I’d expect an old, lecture-style college professor to be like. He gets out of his armchair and walks around me, talking half to me, half to the air.

“You see, the rhetorical question was first invented by the Dragons. Only naturally. Of course, Elves and Dwarves adopted the practice, but it was Dragon-kind that first thought of a question that had no need for an answer. Elves were too in tune with nature; they expected answers to pop up, possibly from the rocks and trees they talked to. Dwarves on the other hand are literal creatures. If they ask you a question, they demand an answer. Humans on the other cl—hand…”

He broke off, shaking his head and sighing.

“But I forget my audience. You don’t even know what I’m talking about, do you?”

He’s still an arrogant ass. But I get the distinct impression he’s also starved for company. Well, I can still answer back, so let’s see if I can’t continue this. Even if swearing is out of the question, I’m great at getting under people’s skin. It’s practically one of my Skills – [Being a Smart-mouthed Jerk].

“I know what a rhetorical question is.”

He waves a hand at me and shakes his head pityingly.

“Yes, yes. I’m sure you do. Ah, I’d forgotten how Humans exaggerate and lie.”

Does he forget I can’t lie at the moment? I try to glare, but my facial muscles still aren’t working.

“Would I really be that much of an idiot that I’d lie about knowing what a rhetorical question is?”

“Well of course, I would assume—”

Pause. I enjoy the look on his face for a few seconds before he gives me a flat-lidded stare. Well, if I die at least I died doing what I do best. You can put that on my gravestone*.



*Ryoka Griffin, 1995 – 2016. “Never knew when to shut up.”



“Ah. I see that you are marginally more intelligent than the others I have met. Very well then, perhaps you will be able to answer my next question as well.”

He gestures, and from out of nowhere a map flies over and unfurls itself in the air. It’s a real map, old and dusty. I really want to sneeze, but I can’t. It stays motionless in the air as the mage shows me a map of the continent. Damn. I really wanted to see the world map.

Mr. Mage taps the old parchment with one finger.

“I wish to know of any ongoing major wars between multiple nations, new technologies or spells developed, legendary monsters sighted or slain—import of that nature. Tell me all the news you have heard of in the past several years or so. What has transpired while I have been…secluded here?”

Oh boy, I’m going to love this. I give him the most casual shrug possible and spread my arms out.

“Dunno.”

“Excuse me?”

“I don’t pay attention to world news. You probably know more about what’s going on than I do.”

Blink, blink. Oh yes, score one for Ryoka Griffin*.



*He’s still up by a few hundred thousand points, though.



Again, the mage harrumphs and glares at me, but his truthiness spell on me is working, and both he and I know it. He sighs, tugs at his beard again, and tries a different tack.

“Do you at least know if Magnolia Reinhart still lives?”

“…Yes.”

“Indeed, indeed. That is good. Well then, have you heard of a strange child known as Ryoka Griffin? She is a Runner, like you, although presumably high-level in the [Runner] class, unlike you. I am told her leg is currently injured or she may have been recently healed. Do you know of her?”

Oh gods. Poker face. There is so much I want to ask in those last few sentences, but—stick to the truth!

“I know of a Ryoka Griffin, yes.”

“Indeed? Do you know her address, a location where she stays at night? I have tried scrying her with magic, but either the name I was given was wrong or she is protected by powerful magic.”

Now why the hell would Magnolia…? No, that’s a stupid question. I know the answer to that. But why wouldn’t he be able to find me? I don’t have any magical protections on me, not any that I’m aware of*. And how the hell am I going to answer? Ah, got it. Again, with the truth.



*Note to self: have this checked out and buy something soon.



“Ryoka Griffin—Ryoka doesn’t have a permanent place of residence. She moves around a lot, and she doesn’t stay in one city or inn for very long if she can help it.”

The old man sighs at me and shakes his head.

“Very well, very well. I shall have to ask again for her true name, if that is the case. Although why Reinhart would have failed to extract her full name astounds me.”

Aha! I’ve got it. I know why he can’t find me with magic. He might be able to cast the highest-level scrying spell or whatever, but it’s no use if he can’t spell my name. Turns out having a dad who gives you a traditional Japanese name comes in handy once in a while. Ryoka. Trying spelling the kanji on that one, sucker*.



*Kanji, the written language of Japan. My name is Japanese, and although my U.S. birth certificate shows the English reading of it—Ryoka—my real name as given to me is 涼香. I’m willing to bet that he’d need to know that in order to find me.



Being stumped at anything seems to be a unique experience for this guy. He looks put out, at any rate, but then he turns his attention back to me, and I get the full intensity of his stare again.

“Well, as interesting as this has been, I have no further questions for you. Runner, tell me, are you one of the better Runners in your guild, despite your lack of levels?”

“Yes.”

No exaggeration or deceit needed there. The old guy looks unconvinced, but he nods reluctantly.

“Very well. In that case, hear my request. You have come here seeking payment and a delivery. I will offer you your paltry sum, but you will complete my request, sparing no effort to fulfill it, either by your own hands or ones more qualified. Is that understood?”

“…Yes.”

I really don’t like the sound of that. And I’ve got a bad feeling that whatever he’s going to ask of me, I’m going to be bound to do. A geas*. Damn.



*A geas, or geis if you prefer the Irish spelling, is a type of quest. Or…an oath bound by fate and magic. Look it up if you don’t know. Old myths and stories were full of them, and they never ended well for the people who took them on. Here’s hoping this one’s a simple task.



He points at me. I can already hear the silent orchestra in the background playing. Great. Why not add some wind and special effects to make it even more dramatic, old man?

“You will go to the area known as the Blood Fields and locate the individual known as Az’kerash. Or—perhaps he uses his former, Human name. Perril. Perril Chandler, I believe.”

Perril Chandler? That’s a far cry from Az’kerash. But since I can still talk, I guess it’s time to ask as much as I can.

“Who is this guy?”

The man eyes me again, as if I should know. I shrug, and he sniffs and shakes his head.

“He is a powerful mage. A [Necromancer], to be exact. But I believe he would be most easily identifiable by appearance. His hair is pale white, as is his skin. His eyes are violet. Although—he may use illusion spells to conceal such features when moving about. You may have heard of him as the Necromancer of Terandria and that he had passed away—he has not. Hence the geas—the rest of the world thinks him dead, and I would not wish to start another continental war, possibly intercontinental, by making a mess of things.”

Oh fuck. Isn’t he supposed to be dead, according to the Horns? But all I can do is listen.

Silver-beard strokes said beard again and pauses. He seems to think for a moment and then nods.

“I suppose the easiest way would be to go wherever the undead are most prevalent. He has an army. A fortress of the dead, to be exact. If you can make it here…well, you are the only Runner to reach even my humble abode, so I must take the chance.”

Oh fuck. Oh geez. Oh gods almighty and deceased tap-dancing on my unmarked grave. That does not sound like a survivable request.

The old mage is already turning away, but I can’t just take that and run off. I clear my throat, and he turns and reluctantly looks back towards me.

“Speak.”

“Ah. If this guy—Az’kerash is surrounded by the dead, how am I supposed to get to him without being killed?”

He looks annoyed at the question or perhaps my stupidity.

“Naturally, his bodyguards will attempt to slay you. No doubt they regard all living beings as a threat. You must simply make your way to him, regardless of the peril. Besides, most of the animated dead are slow and easy to outrun.”

“Yeah, but they have arrows. How am I supposed to dodge those?”

“You are a Runner, are you not? Can you not simply outrun arrows?”

“…No. I can’t outrun spells either, and I’ve seen undead mages. I won’t survive more than a few seconds if I run into a Lich by myself.”

Silver-beard looks put out. He tugs at his beard again, almost as if he wants to rip it off.

“Confounded hair—I suppose I should have expected as much from a Human Runner. Without levels. Very well. If that is the case…”

He trails off. Looks like he’s deep in thought, but I still have more questions. I clear my throat again, and his brows snap together as he glares at me.

“Why can’t you just send the package or whatever it is with magic or something? Is it too heavy to transport? Because if it is—”

“Magic is not the solution here. The one I wish to deliver a letter and small item to—he is shielded from location or communication from any form of spell, either malign or beneficial. As am I. I cannot discern his location nor speak with him save through the slowest of methods, which is why I requested a Runner. Also, it is the principle of the thing. I am not doing this out of pleasure, but obligation. Damned obligation…ahem. Thus, I will also require your return to report success.”

Even better. I really should not open my big mouth.

“I barely survived getting here. I probably won’t a second time. And if finding this [Necromancer] is as dangerous as it sounds—”

“I heard you. Be silent.”

Well, there goes speech. I helplessly stand and watch as the old man talks to himself.

“This is why…Humans…it cannot be helped. Hm. A Courier would have been far more preferable. But if the issue is simply a matter of survival and speed, I suppose…”

He looks around. Then he points and beckons. From a corner of the cavern I can’t see, a bottle flies into his hand. Mages can use the Force. Who knew?

Silver-beard holds the bottle out to me. I stare at it. It’s an orange—no, a glowing orange-pink mixture contained in a glass bottle. It looks like nothing I’d want to put in my body, but my hand reaches up to take it anyways.

“Here. Take this as your fee for delivery. As to your fee for arriving here, albeit injured—”

Another gesture, and a shower of gold swirls up into the air and down into a bag he holds out in his hand. Despite the amount of money, the bag doesn’t even ripple as the coins flow into it.

The mage hands me the bag, and I find myself placing it at my hip.

“The potion is a concoction that will enhance your speed greatly. Do not drink it all at once. A single dose should suffice for any monster, undead or otherwise, that you encounter. With it, you should be able to reach Perril Chandler more or less intact. Be sure not to confuse mana potions with health potions either. Your mana poisoning was most inconvenient to deal with.”

Oh. Was that what it was? Damn. It all makes sense now. No wonder I wasn’t healing. But I could have sworn Ceria gave me the right potions.

“Was the mana poisoning bad? If so—thank you, I guess.”

Silver-hair raises his eyebrows as if surprised.

“Mana poisoning? You would certainly not have died from the amount of mana you imbibed. Violent illness, fever, and uncontrollable bodily excretion would have been the worst you would have suffered over the next few days if I had left it alone.”

Wow. Suddenly, I’m really glad he took the time to heal that.

“Was it intentional? If you were attempting to augment your body, I must tell you it was done poorly. A minuscule increase to your diet is the only way to properly acclimatize the Human body to magic. Not that I would expect modern mages to know how to naturalize magic within themselves.”

Okay, if my ears could move, they would definitely perk up at that. And I’d love to ask more questions, but suddenly, my employer seems eager to have me gone. He shakes his head and flicks his fingers at me.

“Regardless, do not injure yourself unnecessarily while fulfilling my task. Take this letter and this ring.”

Two more objects fly out of nowhere, and the mage hands them to me. The first is a scroll, tightly sealed with wax. The second is a small ring made of what looks like silver and an onyx gem. I say ‘looks like’, because when my hand closes over the metal it feels warm, and both gem and metal seem to be shining from within. Magic. It looks amazing, though.

The old man eyes me sternly and points to both items.

“Do not wear the ring or you will suffer excruciatingly. The same goes for opening the letter, is that clear?”

“Crystal.”

He eyes me again and shakes his head. Then he seems to waver, bits his lip, and grumbling, flicks his hand.

“The Bloodfields should be empty, but—just in case, and in addition to my generous remunerations, I shall present you with this wand. It is a powerful flame wand for self-defense.”

A crystal wand with what looks like red magma joins the other objects. He hands it to me—but holds on as if reluctant to give it away.

“Do not use it unless you are removed from your target. You understand? If you have no need of it on this trip—it will doubtless sell for some good coin. I trust you will do your best to survive. Retrieving my gift and message would be inconvenient.”

“Nice to know you care. I guess I should just see myself out then?”

“And waste time? No. I will expedite the first leg of your journey. Regardless of my healing, you will need several days no doubt to fully recover from the magic used and prepare for the journey ahead of you. Do not delay.”

He points at the ground at my feet. I nearly jump out of my skin as an intricate circle of countless interconnected shapes and runes appears at my feet.

Oh, apparently I can move now. But Silver-mane scowls at me, and my feet immediately shuffle back into the center of the circle.

“What—what is this?”

“A teleportation spell. Have you not—but of course, I suppose your mages are too weak for that. Now, where do you live?”

“Celum. But hey, I can run back. The potion you gave me—”

“Do not waste its effects. It is worth far more than the gold I gave you. Now, this city Celum—it is not too far from here, yes?”

“Less than a hundred miles. Not too far, yeah.”

He seems immune to sarcasm. The mage strokes at his beard as he talks to himself.

“Celum? Celum…ah. I believe I remember the general vicinity.”

He points again, and the circle glows. I wonder if he needs to chant spells like some of the mages I’ve seen. But then—this guy seems to be head and shoulders above every other mage, so I guess words are optional.

At last, the mage nods. The magic runes at my feet begin to glow brightly.

“The spell will take you to the heart of the city. Go, and carry out my request as soon as you are able.”

“Thanks for the encouragement.”

He waves his hand at me and then pauses. Reluctantly, he looks at me as the glowing magic circle at my feet begins to shine with multiple gradients of light.

“I suppose it would violate the basic rules of hospitality not to inquire. So tell me Runner—what is your name? I am Teriarch. Speak it not but remember it, for what it is worth.”

For a moment, he looks sad, then dignified, as if he’s some fount of great wisdom and dignity in his hideaway. And I? I grin at him. Well, I guess I can go for one parting shot. The runes at my feet glow—and I feel myself being dragged away by something massive. I open my mouth and say two words.

“Ryoka Griffin.”

Then I’m gone.



——



Teriarch stopped and stared at the place where the Human known as Ryoka Griffin had just been. Desperately, he reached out, but even with magic, she was already out of his grasp. Short of casting multiple undirected spells that would teleport quite a bit of the city back here, she was gone.

Cursing silently in his own language, Teriarch berated himself for not observing basic etiquette. True, it was with a Human, but—how was he supposed to know it was that exact Runner who would show up on his doorstep?

Ah, well. He knew her face, and that would make her marginally easier to locate. Teriarch was still unclear what strange power shielded her from his scrying spells, especially since Ryoka had no magical power or even classes of her own. She was a strange Human, but now he understood part of Reinhart’s fascination with her.

It would be a truly problematic occurrence if she were to die delivering his message. If he’d known it was her, he would have given her another item of far greater ability. If she died, Magnolia would have his hide.

That was one of his concerns. The other was that either the earth had lowered again in the last few years or he’d miscalculated the exact coordinates of the city of Celum. To be more accurate, he’d been spot on in every geographical specification except one—

Altitude.

Teriarch winced as in his magical view of the city of Celum he saw Ryoka appear. She was more or less in the center of the city as he’d claimed, but she was definitely too high up. He watched her plummet down out of the sky from roof-height.

“Oops. Ah, well. This is why Humans use healing potions after all.”

He turned. Ryoka would live, and he was busy. Busy and annoyed at having to do work after so soon. He didn’t think long on Ryoka. Magnolia could have what she wanted, but he—

He was aloof. Separate. He didn’t think to ask what had driven her to run almost to her death here. Because he didn’t care. He had done his duty in regards to Perril Chandler, distasteful as such things were. Duty, obligation—and a bit of work before he could rest once more. The old man strode off to take care of the work that had built up.

Teriarch made it a few steps and then tripped again. This time, it was over his robes. He growled.

“Flayed scales and hoard blight!”





1.44 R


Ryoka sat in an inn and munched on her potatoes and stewed meat. She felt guilty about it, but the dinner menu hadn’t exactly been diverse with options, and she was hungry. Still, she felt guilty.

Her plate was about 80% potato and 20% meat. And it wasn’t great meat at that. The potatoes actually weren’t that bad—the people here spiced them up pretty strong with their unique blend of peppers and herbs, so they were palatable, but it was definitely not the kind of meal a healthy runner should eat.

Plus, this was her second plate. The guilt was real, but Ryoka couldn’t do much about it. She took another bite of the steaming potatoes and tried not to think about dieting or proper nutritional intake.

Normally, she avoided carbo-loading unless she was actually going to run a race but…she deserved a treat. Besides, she was officially resting at the moment after all the healing she’d been doing. And again, the inn wasn’t serving anything else, so she had to make do.

Potatoes and meat, with a lot more gristle than she was used to. Still, it tasted good, and she was used to rugged fare, especially when she went camping.

Not modern-day camping, either. Ryoka disdained people who slept in their own car or, worse, in a huge trailer they towed to campsites. No, she preferred roughing it with a sleeping bag, enough food for a few days, and the bare essentials. That was living.

But she had to admit, it would be nice to have a hamburger once in a while. And fresh vegetables like kale. Right now, harvest season had passed and it was late fall (although it certainly didn’t feel that cold), and vegetables were in shorter supply.

More meat, more vegetables, a lot fewer carbs. That would be better. But you got what you paid for. Ryoka sighed and ate another chunk of potato. It wasn’t bad. It just wasn’t great either. At least someone else was enjoying her meal.

Garia finished her third plate of potatoes and meat and took a deep draft from her mug before sighing contentedly. She had a good appetite. Well, she would. Ryoka surreptitiously eyed Garia’s arms and body. She might not have a six pack, but Ryoka hadn’t seen arms that thick on another girl outside of an MMA tournament.

Not that she was muscled like those idiots who used steroids. Garia was just a heavier girl, one who clearly was used to heavy lifting.

“Do you always do the heaviest deliveries possible?”

Garia paused as she raised her mug to her lips.

“Um, yes. Normally. I mean, I’m not too fast, but I can still earn quite a lot on an overnight delivery.”

Ryoka was trying to pretend her shoulders didn’t hurt. Which they did. Immensely. The strain from hauling that much weight…and Garia seemed fine. So Ryoka was fine. Fuck you. She was so fine—she coughed as she reached for a cup of water.

“Those spices you carried here. All the way from Wales. They were heavy. I saw the size of your pack. Must have been sixty, eight pounds of weight. And you jogged the entire way here?”

Garia shifted and blushed a bit.

“Well, if you distribute the weight properly, it’s not that bad. And sometimes I walk a bit if I get tired.”

“Hm. Impressive.”

Holy shit you’re amazing. But that part didn’t come out. Just a grunt—and Garia’s look of pleasure and blush made Ryoka feel so guilty she pretended she didn’t see it.

Ryoka bit into another potato and eyed the browned onions as Garia turned red. She clearly wasn’t used to praise, but Ryoka was impressed by anyone who could run with that much weight.

“The Runner’s Guild requests are a mix between fast deliveries, safe deliveries, and heavy deliveries, right?”

“That’s right. Most deliveries people want fast over long distances, like the ones you take. But sometimes they want to make sure no one reads their message, so that’s important too. But when they need something delivered quickly—well, faster than by cart or wagon and it’s small enough—we get the heavy requests. I take those most of the time. It’s safe. No one wants to steal raw ore or a few bags of sugar. The most expensive stuff I carry are weapons and spices.”

“Hm.”

Ryoka wondered just how efficient Runners were compared to a wagon. But then, she’d seen the traffic jams that occurred in cities and how muddy the roads could get. Runners might be expensive, but if you needed something now, they were your only real option.

As Ryoka lifted her fork to her mouth, she glanced up and saw a man staring at her across the room. He immediately glanced back down at his plate as their eyes met, but he was far from the only one. Several other men and women of various ages glanced away or, in a few cases, met Ryoka’s gaze as she looked around the room. Even the barmaids eyed her surreptitiously as they delivered another plate of food for Garia.

Ryoka scowled. Garia noticed the other Runner’s expression and realized what was making Ryoka unhappy.

“They’re just interested, Ryoka. There’s no need to look like that.”

“If they’re so interested, they can come over and talk or they can bugger off.”

Garia blinked. Sometimes, Ryoka used the strangest expressions when she talked, but Garia could usually understand what she meant. The glare Ryoka leveled at her watchers was unmistakable, though. Garia tried to sound reasonable.

“Well, can you blame them? I mean, you are the only Runner to survive the High Passes for years—and without a scratch at that! And when you fell out of the sky—”

“Don’t remind me.”

Ryoka scowled down at her plate and tried not to remember. Her back still ached, even though the healing potions had done their work. Shoulders ache, back ache…headache. At least she hadn’t broken anything again or landed on her head.

“Damn elfish mage bastard.”

“What?”

“Nothing. Anyways, I didn’t get out unscathed. I got torn up on the way in, and I needed serious healing or I would have died.”

“Oh, so you found a healing potion? Ceria was so worried when she realized she’d given you the mana potions.”

“…Something like that. And it’s odd. I could have sworn she gave me healing potions too.”

“She’s really, really sorry, you know.”

“I know. Anyways, it’s both our faults for not double-checking.”

Ryoka scowled at her half-finished plate. Garia fidgeted, clearly wanting to clear Ceria’s name

“She said she tried to contact you several times. Didn’t you, um, notice?”

Ryoka glared harder at her innocent plate. She tried not to let her voice get too defensive, but it was hard.

“How was I supposed to know I was supposed to touch those damn fireflies to speak with her? I thought I was being hexed or something.”

“Oh, no. That’s the way students at Wistram Academy communicate apparently. Ceria doesn’t know other spells so…”

“I get it. I’m not mad at her. Anyways, I survived. It all worked out.”

Except of course that she had more problems than she’d started out with. Ryoka could still feel Teriarch’s words burning in the back of her mind. But she could ignore them, so long as she reminded herself she still needed to prepare. The strange potion he’d given her was locked in Ryoka’s chest upstairs.

“Come to that, where is Ceria? I haven’t seen her. I’d have assumed she’d be right here along with Gerial and Calruz.”

Garia shook her head.

“They’re all out of the city. Calruz came by and gathered all the members. Apparently, they’re going to Esthelm to prepare to enter the ruins in Liscor.”

“Oh.”

Ryoka’s expression didn’t alter noticeably, but she swore internally. She raised her mug to her lips, opened her mouth to ask another question, and this time swore externally.

“Damnit.”

Fals walked across the inn, flashing a smile at one of the barmaids and clasping hands with someone he recognized. He stopped at Ryoka’s table and hesitated. There were three chairs, but Ryoka’s foot had magically appeared in the third seat.

“Ryoka, how are you? I was hoping I could talk to you!”

“Were you?”

Ryoka stared as Fals dragged up another chair and sat next to Garia, who blushed and edged away from him. Ryoka wasn’t quite glaring—mainly because Garia was kicking her none-too-gently in the shins and trying to get her to play nice. She didn’t feel like playing nice.

“I just wanted to congratulate you on your delivery. Everyone in the city’s talking about it.”

“Good for them.”

Garia glared, and Ryoka toned down the rampant hostility in her voice. Fals cleared his throat, looking abashed.

“Look, I’m, ah, sorry about earlier. We didn’t part on the best of terms, did we?”

Ryoka stared. Fals hesitated and then went on.

“The Guild—and I—would like to apologize. Clearly, you’re a great Runner, and we’d hate to lose you. We’ll talk to Magnolia, and if you’d like to take on more requests, we’ll be happy to let you take any one you want.”

Mentally, Ryoka translated his statement. Since she’d won and defied Magnolia, she had stopped blocking Ryoka. Or the Guild wanted a share of her delivery and was willing to flip Magnolia off because they’d had enough of her bossing them around. Well, she could live with that. And so would the Guild.

She didn’t respond, though. Instead, Ryoka slowly and deliberately took a big bite of potato and chewed slowly as she stared down Fals. It was awkward as hell, but she enjoyed his discomfort.

Fals cleared his throat and glanced at Garia, but the other girl was trying not to make eye contact with him and wolfing down her food.

“So, um, how were the High Passes? Did you see a lot of monsters, or were you able to outrun them?”

“Saw a lot of monsters. Nasty ones.”

“Really?”

“Yep.”

“…Any interesting ones?”

Ryoka shrugged.

“Gargoyles, birds with teeth, killer goats, and wolf packs. You’d love it there.”

“Ah. Well—well done on avoiding them. What about the client? I take it you got the request from him in person, right? What was he like? Or is it a she?”

Garia looked up, curious. Ryoka glanced around. She felt like several nearby patrons on each table were listening. She nodded to herself and then looked at Fals.

“Confidential.”

“Ah.”

The conversation stalled. Well, it hadn’t really been going that well in the first place, and Ryoka bluntly shot down all of Fals’ attempts to ask about the High Passes or her delivery. At last, he leaned forwards and gave Ryoka his most charming smile.

“I know you’re still recuperating, but I’d love to go on a delivery with you sometime. Maybe you, me, and Garia could do a request?”

“Maybe.”

That was Ryoka’s way of saying no, and all three Runners knew it. Fals didn’t falter though.

“Is there, um, anything I can do for you? I know you’re probably still mad, but I’d love to make it up to you. Would you, say, let me buy you a few drinks?”

Ryoka thought about this while Garia tried to signal her to say ‘yes’ covertly. She nodded at last.

“There is something you can do.”

Fals smiled in relief. He exhaled, and his head rose—it had been sinking progressively with each rejection. He gave Ryoka a huge, expectant smile.

“Really? Well then, what is it?”

Ryoka nodded, deadpan.

“You can clear out. I’m talking to Garia.”

He blinked at her while Garia groaned audibly. Fals tried to smile it off, but Ryoka’s expression was still deadpan. After a few seconds, he stood up awkwardly.

“Well, ah, I’ll be going. It was nice talking to you, Ryoka. And I’ll see you around, Garia.”

He walked around the table and paused for only a second by Ryoka. She heard him whisper just loud enough so she could hear it.

“Watch yourself. Persua left the Guild with her group this morning. She’ll probably try something. Even if the Guild’s watching her—she’s gone mad.”

She glanced up. Fals gave her a Gallic shrug and walked off. Ryoka shook her head in disgust and then received a sharp kick to her shin. She glanced up.

“You didn’t have to be so rude.”

Garia hissed at Ryoka, her normally amicable face clouded over by a frown. She looked at Fals as the Runner left the inn, disappointed. Then she turned back to Ryoka.

“He was trying to say sorry, Ryoka. Why’d you chase him off?”

“I’m not going to ruin my dinner listening to forced apologies and have him try to find out what I’m delivering. You know that’s what he was here to do.”

Garia hesitated.

“Not—necessarily. He, uh—why don’t you like him?”

Ryoka blinked at the sudden change in topic.

“He’s annoying. I hate charmers, and he’s not even that charming to begin with. Whose side is he on, anyways?”

“No one’s. He’s trying to keep the Guild together, Ryoka.”

“By stepping on anyone who gets out of line? Good method. He didn’t stop Persua and her cronies from attacking me—and he’s not going to do it again by the sounds of it.”

“He would if you let him stick around. Fals can’t do anything to Persua except talk to her, but he’s trying to help. He was celebrating when he heard they got demoted to Street Runners! And he told Claudeil when no one was sure if you were going to walk again—he told him that if you didn’t walk, he should leave the region that night.”

Ryoka Griffin blinked at Garia. She hadn’t known that. Was Fals going to…pull a Persua on Claudeil? But almost instantly she had a thought, and faster than she could think twice, Ryoka sneered.

“Oh, how chivalrous. Too bad he couldn’t say that to Persua. And I’m not sleeping with him either way.”

She snorted—and Garia pushed her. It was a shove—which sent Ryoka sprawling out of her chair and rolling across the floor.

“Ryoka!”

Garia was surprised—Ryoka rolled into a table and sprang up as the background noise stopped.

Holy heck, I was just pushed by a gorilla. That wasn’t an insult—that was how it felt. Terrifyingly strong. Garia was beet-red as everyone stared at her. Ryoka slowly sat down.

“D-don’t be nasty. Fals likes you. He’s just not—don’t be nasty. You’re the one who keeps provoking Persua, you know. I know she’s bad, but he’s on your side.”

Ryoka raised her eyebrows. She sat without a word. She hadn’t expected that. Nor did she quite believe it. The two Runner girls sat in silence as Garia grew less red, and Ryoka took her time replying. She tried to be more diplomatic this time—and the end result was moderately better.

“Good for him, but I don’t need help.”

“Not even with Persua?”

Garia saw Ryoka’s hand tighten on her fork, almost crushing the cheap pot metal.

“Not even with her. I’ll deal with Persua now that I know what she’s like.”

Garia was doubtful.

“She’s like a dog, Ryoka. Even if you hurt her, she’ll keep coming back. And if you do get her mad, she gets vicious.”

“Oh, she’s like a dog. A female one. And you know what? I’m tired of her shit. If she tries anything again, I’ll put her down.”

Ryoka was about to go on, but Garia started frantically signaling her to stop. Ryoka didn’t stop, though. She’d already seen the multiple reflections in her mug, but some things needed saying.

“She’s annoying, stupid, craven, and she doesn’t know how to run. I still owe her a broken leg. If she thinks she can try something else—”

“Hi Persua!”

Ryoka looked up. Persua stood in front of the table, smiling in a not-so-friendly way down at the two Runners. She had her usual group of cronies at her back, and Ryoka spotted a bigger guy behind them. Toriska and Claudeil were flanking someone six-foot-four—with a neck like a tree stump. But Persua was the one Ryoka focused on.

Fals hadn’t lied. The little, false, ‘friendly’ look Persua always gave had calcified. Now, it flaked away, revealing a sharp dagger of hatred that jabbed at Ryoka. She wasn’t just pissed…but it came out of her voice in the most syrupy-sweet tones Ryoka had heard. It made the hairs on her arms stand up.

Uh oh.

“Ryoka, Garia! I’m so glad you’re okay! I almost didn’t spot you, but then I saw Garia—she’s impossible to miss even in this crowd—and I decided to say hi!”

Garia turned bright red and looked down at her stack of plates while Ryoka looked up and met Persua’s eyes. A spark of hatred wouldn’t be enough to describe the look that flashed between the two.

Mean girls. Ryoka remembered them from school. Persua was a perfect representation of the school social climber who would tear down anyone she didn’t like.

And like the other girls Ryoka had clashed with, Persua didn’t need an invitation to keep talking. Her eyes flicked to Garia and then back to Ryoka.

“So sorry to interrupt your conversation. Were you talking about me by any chance?”

Garia flinched, but Ryoka’s expression didn’t change. She nodded and raised her mug to Persua and smiled a tiny bit.

“Yeah, sorry, I just called you a bitch.”

Persua’s smile vanished in a heartbeat. Claudeil made a sound that might have been a guffaw—but then he went quiet. Garia’s mouth opened in an ‘o’ of horror as she stared at Ryoka. Toriska looked at Persua, and even she looked worried.

“That’s not very nice. I’d hate to think you were talking behind my back, Ryoka.”

“Don’t worry. I’ll do it to your face. I’m busy, Persua. Go somewhere else.”

“What if I want to stay? I’ve a right to sit in this inn, same as you.”

“Find another table. But if I were you, I’d get out.”

“Is that a threat?”

“Yeah, pretty much.”

Persua hesitated. She probably hadn’t expected Ryoka to confront her this quickly, but Ryoka knew how the conversation would have gone regardless. She nodded at Persua and her group.

“You lot gonna piss off or do I have to make you leave?”

If Garia could have edged any further back from her table she’d be sitting at the one behind her. For a second, Persua and her friends hesitated. They might be Runners and outnumber the two by a good margin, but Ryoka had a certain edge about her. But then someone shoved his way through the group and stood next to Persua.

Ryoka looked up past Persua and into a solid face. Solid, or ugly, if you wanted to be unkind. Toriska had her knife—but Ryoka had just been facing down Gargoyles and goats with knives for teeth. Toriska was the one who took a step back, and even Claudeil hesitated.

“Persua, the Guild’ll—”

“Hey, Claudeil? Shut up.”

She turned her head, and her friend went quiet. The rest of the Runners were edging back, not wanting to be seen and get in trouble, and if it was just Persua, Claudeil, and Toriska, Ryoka would try them all on—she could grab a plate, and they could eat shards of pottery.

But Persua had brought backup this time. An adventurer scowled down at Ryoka and leaned forwards over the table.

“I’d watch your mouth if I were you, Runner. You should show more respect to your seniors and betters.”

Of course. Ryoka stared into murky green eyes and cursed herself for not remembering. Another trick mean girls liked to use when they couldn’t solve things with words. Run to the biggest boy in the room.

“I don’t know who you are, but you’re in my face. Go away, and take Persua and her crew with you.”

The adventurer blinked. He was doing the classic male trick of crowding Ryoka, and it wasn’t working. She wasn’t even leaning back, and they were nearly nose to nose.

“This is Arnel. He’s a Bronze-ranked adventurer in Celum.”

Persua smiled from behind the adventurer. She patted Arnel on the shoulder, and he straightened and smiled back at her. She made a face when he turned back to glare at Ryoka. It was almost sad to see how obvious her contempt for him was and how much Arnel was being played. Almost. Ryoka had little sympathy for any guy playing the bully part.

Arnel leaned forwards again, this time towards Garia, who shrank back. He glared at Ryoka, who stared back at him until he blinked.

“I think you should be a little more respectful to Miss Persua. An apology would be a good start, and I’d insist on it.”

“Or what?”

Garia kicked Ryoka again, hard.

“Or what?”

Arnel looked back at Persua, who laughed shrilly. He smiled hostilely at Ryoka.

“I guess then I’d have to teach you a lesson in manners, Runner.”

“Really? That would be amusing to watch.”

The adventurer’s face went blank for a moment. Again, this wasn’t going according to how his brain had plotted the conversation out. But Persua stepped in to help him. She glared down at Ryoka.

“Arnel’s an adventurer. He’s fought monsters and slain countless Goblins. You don’t have that oaf of a Minotaur and that freak half-Elf to protect you now, Ryoka.”

“Who says I need backup?”

This was too much for the impressionable Arnel. He was aware some of the other inn goers were snickering at him, and even the fat innkeeper was working up the nerve to order him to take the fight outside. He snarled and pushed Ryoka roughly in her seat.

“Look, you idiot. I’m giving you only one warning—”

Ryoka stood up. She was shorter than Arnel, but far taller than he expected at 6’1’’, and when she pushed back her chair, the inn went silent. She still had her mug in her hands. Arnel was trying to come up with a good threat, but Persua backed away as Ryoka raised her mug to her lips.

She took a sip of her drink—mainly just for show—and then tossed the rest of her mug’s contents into the adventurer’s face. He blinked as watery ale ran down his nose and chin. Garia’s expression was a waxwork. Persua smiled evilly. Toriska and Claudeil hesitated and looked at Persua’s face and then at each other. Their Guild memberships! But if Ryoka started the fight—

The adventurer was still shifting from shock to outrage when Ryoka decked him with a spinning backhand. He crashed to the ground, and she tossed the mug at Persua. Not hard—well, okay, hard enough that the other girl had to duck before the container broke her nose, but not as hard as Ryoka could have tossed it. The cheap pottery shattered to bits, and Ryoka waited for Arnel to stand back up.

“You craven whore!”

He shouted as he rushed at her. Ryoka waited patiently as he came at her. She’d already moved far enough away from the table and cleared the chair from behind her.

The adventurer rushed at her, over a hundred—maybe two hundred pounds of angry guy. Ryoka shifted her weight and timed her strike. When the adventurer was only a few feet away, she moved.

Ryoka balanced on one leg while her other extended. She didn’t quite kick—it was more like a push. A powerful push that broke the adventurer’s charge and sent him stumbling back.

He came back, of course. They always did. But by that point, Ryoka had the room, leverage, and timing to set up her roundhouse. It came up and across his ribs, making a dull thudding sound as it struck him.

The adventurer gasped, lost the air in his lungs, and stumbled back. But he didn’t fall down.

Ryoka tried not to wince. She’d hit him hard, but he was wearing something hard underneath his clothing. Chain mail? It felt like she’d kicked that.

Quickly, before he could move, she snap-kicked him in the chest. It wasn’t a Muay Thai move—but she didn’t have enough room for anything else.

This time, Arnel fell down, but he got up at once. Ryoka grimaced and hopped back as he swung at her. She threw a punch, but he caught it and lashed out at her face.

Ryoka caught his fist on an arm and felt the heavy blow. Damn. This wasn’t good. Now Arnel was really mad, and he was swinging wildly at her. She dodged and weaved backwards, but she had little room to maneuver. Plus, Ryoka was on the wrong foot mentally.

She wasn’t used to people getting up after she hit them.

Dodge, dodge—Ryoka threw a counter and hit him squarely on the jaw. But he was tough, and when he struck back, he finally landed a blow.

Ryoka felt the impact on her head and twisted her neck, but it still hurt. She backed up, and the adventurer came at her. She tried to keep him back with punches, but he was more than willing to trade hits.

He kept rushing her, and the tables and chairs made it nearly impossible for Ryoka to weave and dodge like she’d been taught. She instead raised her hands up around her head, forming a guard on both sides of her head. It was a traditional Muay Thai guard, but the problem was the adventurer wasn’t trying to hit or kick her that much.

He was a guy, and she had the definite sense he didn’t want to hit her so much as take her down. He kept trying to go for the bear hug. She let him get close but grabbed his shoulders and swept his feet out as he lunged.

Again, he went down. Ryoka wanted to stomp on his face or kick him in the nuts or both—but something flew at her head. She struck the mug down with one hand and glanced up. Persua glared and threw another glass, which missed Ryoka by miles.

Ryoka’s moment of inattention cost her. Arnel surged upwards, and she was too slow to get away. He seized her left arm and began punching at Ryoka. She hammered at his face, but he wouldn’t let go.

He was strong. She couldn’t break free just by pulling, not that she had any intention to. Arnel hit Ryoka twice in the side of the face—not hard because he couldn’t get a good angle. She’d bloodied his nose and got him twice on the face, but he now pulled back for a big punch.

There was no way to get away. Ryoka got ready. She’d take the punch and then hit him with a knee. Hopefully she wouldn’t kill him or break anything too vital, but enough was enough.

She braced herself for a hit to her ribs. Arnel swung—

And Garia grabbed his hand.

All of the man’s momentum carried him forwards, but Garia was a tree that he crashed into. He fought to get her to let go, but Garia had hold of his hand with her own, and her grip was like steel.

It was a three way tug-of-war with Arnel holding Ryoka and Garia holding him. Not for long, though. The instant his attention shifted to Garia, Ryoka acted. She clocked the man with a downwards elbow so fast he’d let go and she was away before he could blink.

“Calm down! Everyone calm down!”

At last, Ryoka could hear what Garia was saying over the roaring of blood in her ears. Arnel was still cursing at her, tugging at Garia’s arm, and Persua was shouting for her friends to help him. But the other Runners didn’t want to get close, especially once they saw how Garia was effortlessly holding the bigger man back.

“Let go, damn you!”

“Come on, we can work this out—”

Ryoka tried to move to block, but Arnel’s fist caught Garia on the mouth even as she was talking. The bigger girl stumbled, and he wrenched his hand free. Triumphantly, Arnel turned on Ryoka and raised his fists.

Garia stumbled, put her hand to her face, and looked up at the other man as Ryoka danced back. Her eyes burned, and she straightened. Garia made a clumsy fist and then moved forwards.

Ryoka was playing tag with her fist, and Arnel’s face was it. He still wasn’t going down or even slowing, but then a planet interposed itself between her and the adventurer: Garia. Arnel raised his hands for a hammer blow, but too late. Slow as she was, the other Runner was in the way. And then it happened.

Garia threw a punch.

It was slow. Ryoka saw the other girl telegraph the motion, and she had terrible form. But when she hit the adventurer, he made a sound. Or rather, his body made a sound.

Wumph.

Ryoka had never seen someone’s feet leave the floor from a punch. Arnel levitated for a second and then touched the ground as Garia’s fist let him down back to earth. He folded up like a sack of potatoes.

He was out. Completely out, without even a chance to object. Ryoka blinked down at the adventurer and saw the chain mail had deformed around Garia’s punch. The other girl rubbed at her hand and then turned.

Claudeil had a chair raised. It was mid-swing when Garia caught it. She lifted it out of his hands, and he tried to hang on—until he felt that strength. Then he let go. Toriska had her dagger drawn, but she hadn’t jumped into the fight—mostly waved it around. She looked at Garia, at the Bronze-rank adventurer, and backed up. Ryoka was one thing, and Claudeil and Toriska hated her enough, but—Garia?

The rest of the Street Runners were already running. Persua had slipped out the door before the fight had even ended. Her friends made to follow suit, but Ryoka caught Claudeil and threw him into a table. He scrambled up, yelping, as she gave him a damn good kick to his back. Ryoka managed to punch Toriska hard enough to bruise her cheek, and then they were gone.



——



The aftermath of a tavern brawl was never fun, especially when you had an innkeeper screaming at you. But Arnel had money—barely enough to cover the costs—and Ryoka wasn’t about to pay for something she hadn’t started. Well, she had started it, but she still wasn’t going to pay.

The upshot of it was that Garia and Ryoka were kicked out of the inn, at least for the rest of dinner. They walked down the street, Garia talking excitedly to Ryoka.

“You were amazing! He barely touched you the entire time!”

“Eh. I should have knocked him out in the first few moments. He was tougher than I thought. Got me a few times.”

Gingerly, Ryoka touched at her cheek and arms. Bruises. Not too deep, but annoying. She deserved them, though, for being so sloppy.

“But the way you moved! He was an adventurer, and you treated him like some kind of Level 1 [Thug]! How’d you do it?”

“Oh, it’s just martial arts. A bit of Muay Thai and other styles.”

Ryoka glanced at Garia’s blank face and elaborated.

“It’s a way to fight unarmed. You learn how to kick, punch, throw, etcetera properly.”

“Really? This Muy—muy tai thing is good? Is it a Skill?”

Ryoka wanted to groan or roll her eyes.

“Not a Skill. It’s something you learn, not a class or anything. I learned it when I was a kid. You could learn it too.”

“Really? Well, I mean, I’d love to know how to move like that. You were amazing back there! You’re practically as good as an adventurer yourself!”

Ryoka laughed shortly.

“He wasn’t that great. And martial arts don’t work on monsters. Believe me, I figured that out the hard way.”

“Still, I couldn’t believe it. When you threw the mug in his face I thought we’d have to run for sure. But you took him down!”

Ryoka stopped. She eyed Garia and shook her head with a frown.

“No. You took him down. With one punch.”

“Yeah, but…”

Garia blushed and shook her head.

“I was just angry. You hit him way more than I did.”

This time, it was Ryoka’s turn to object.

“Don’t sell yourself short. That last punch was serious business. I hit that guy several times and he didn’t fall down, but you went right through his chainmail shirt. You’re far stronger than both me and that adventurer. That last punch you threw was harder than my kick.”

“Well, you know…I carry a lot of heavy things…”

Ryoka realized Garia was turning red, and not because she was happy. The barefoot girl stopped in the nearly empty street and eyed Garia.

“What’s wrong? It was a great punch. Your form was terrible, but being strong’s not a problem.”

“It’s just—it’s just a bit embarrassing, that’s all. You know?”

“No. Explain it to me.”

Garia clearly didn’t want to, but Ryoka wouldn’t let her off the hook. She sighed.

“I’m a [Runner]. And—I know I’m bigger than most girls. I just don’t like talking about my size.”

“You’re fine.”

“I’m glad you think so, but—it’s because of my class. And the way I eat, but my class is part of it. That’s why I’m so strong too, but it’s embarrassing.”

“Why?”

There was no getting out of it. Garia looked around, but there was no one around to hear her. Even so, she lowered her voice.

“Um, I was a [Farm Worker] before I became a [Runner]. I got to Level 14 before I changed classes. That’s why I’m so…so…”

She blushed deeply red. Ryoka looked blankly at Garia.

“So strong? What’s the problem?”

“I’m big, Ryoka! I don’t want to be, but [Farm Workers] bulk up, and it’s impossible to lose weight! My dad says it’s fine and that I take after him, but I’d rather my mother. I don’t want to be big. I want to be small and light like you and—”

Garia looked like she was about to cry. Her face was red, and she was starting to stammer. After a moment, Ryoka patted her on the shoulder.

“I’m not light. Well, I am in shape, but so are you. What’s wrong with being that strong? Anyways, a [Farm Worker] doesn’t sound like that bad a job—class. Why do you care?”

Garia shook her head despairingly. She didn’t know how to explain it.

“It’s not a great class. Or a job, really. Even [Farmers] get more respect since they actually know how to till the land and take care of it properly. I just helped out with the plowing, lifting, and so on. But when I used to tell people what class I had, they’d laugh—or they’d figure it out because of how I looked.”

Ryoka didn’t get it. She really didn’t, but it sounded like there was some elitism amongst classes. Class warfare in the literal sense? But she understood the general problem.

“People are bastards no matter what world you’re in. Look, forget about it. That class helped you out if you’re that strong without needing any training, right?”

Garia nodded and sniffed.

“It was helpful. Even if no one likes the class, we get some useful Skills. [Lesser Strength] is the first Skill most warriors get, but [Farm Workers] get it too. Um, I got that on my second level up. But then there’s [Enhanced Strength], which is what I have, and I’ve heard if you reach really high levels, some people get [Greater Strength].”

“And that’s rare?”

“I’ve never seen anyone with it. But yeah, [Enhanced Strength] only comes to warrior classes around Level 30. The fact that I got it so early on means I’m a lot stronger than normal. Dad used to make me help him pull out tree stumps instead of using a horse.”

“W-whoa.”

You had to know something about farming—or roots—to understand what that meant. She and her father had…?

That was impressive. Ryoka had always guessed Garia was strong, but this afternoon had confirmed it for her. She paused and thought before asking another question.

“If this Skill is so good, why doesn’t everyone become a [Farm Worker] for a while before becoming an adventurer? That seems like the smartest move.”

Garia looked surprised.

“Why would they do that? No one wants to work on a farm. It’s boring and tiring, Ryoka.”

“But for the Skill—”

“You don’t know you’ll get it right away. I just got lucky. Okay, a lot of workers like me get at least [Lesser Strength] quickly, but it depends. Anyways, I worked on my father’s farm until I was eighteen, and I only hit Level 14 even though I worked every day from dawn till dusk. It’s not worth it.”

“Ah.”

It sounded—well, it sounded like there was some inefficiency in the way people thought about Skills. Ryoka didn’t play many video games, but if she could get this [Enhanced Strength] from working on a farm as a kid, she’d do that. But then again—18 years was a long time, it was true.

It was a moot point anyways since Ryoka didn’t intend to level, even if she was jealous of Garia’s strength. But the other girl was clearly embarrassed by her body and her class, so Ryoka let the topic drop.

“At least Persua got taught a lesson, although I missed my chance to break her arm. I’ll have to do it next time I see her.”

Garia winced. She knew Ryoka wasn’t kidding.

“Please don’t. If you do, she’ll try something worse.”

“Worse than getting an adventurer to beat the crap out of me? I think I’ll take my chances.”

Ryoka shook her head. She’d have to do something about that girl. Killing her was tempting, but she probably couldn’t get away with it.

“Never mind. I appreciate the help. But I’ve got bigger fish to fry.”

“You’re hungry? I know a good place to eat if you want—”

“I mean, I’ve got stuff to do. Look, you said Ceria’s in Esthelm, right? Where’s that?”

Garia scratched her head as she tried to remember.

“Near the road that goes to Liscor. It’s down south, about sixty miles away?”

Ryoka nodded. She could do that in a single night. She eyed the rooftops surreptitiously and looked around. Casually, she raised her voice as she talked to Garia.

“I’ll sleep here for the night. Then I might go and head on down. If you want to learn how to fight properly, visit me there.”

“Maybe. I’m not sure what I’ll be doing—or if I want to fight. I don’t like violence.”

Ryoka clapped Garia on the shoulder.

“It’s your choice. But with a punch like that, it would be a shame not to learn how to hit the right way. I’ll teach you next time we meet, how about that?”

It was the first time Garia had ever seen Ryoka being pushy about—anything, really. She agreed she might give it a shot and watched as the barefoot girl jogged back to her inn for the night.

“Martial arts?”

Garia stared down at her hand. It was still callused from her days of long work out in the sun. She made a fist experimentally. It felt clumsy, but Ryoka had been impressed. That was rare enough.

“But all the way to Esthelm. That’s a far…”

But she didn’t have anything else she was committed to doing, and there was always work for someone willing to haul heavy goods long distance. More to the point, it might be better for Garia to skip town as well.

The Runner girl thought about what Persua’s reaction to the day’s events would be. Not to mention the local Adventurer’s Guild. They would not be happy to learn one of their own had been beaten by a civilian, let alone a Runner. Garia shuddered and thought that maybe she would take a few long distance requests this week. Probably towards Esthelm, but at the very least away from Celum.

She began to slowly jog off back to her own inn. From a rooftop, the [Assassin] watched Garia go. She wasn’t important, but any friend of Ryoka needed to be reported to Magnolia. It was just as well the girl had ended the fight before he’d needed to step in.

Silently, the nondescript man followed Ryoka stealthily back to her inn. It would ordinarily have been a chore protecting the girl from the inevitable reprisal from both Runner and Adventurer’s Guild, but tonight was an exception. All he had to do was wait. Someone else had an appointment with Ryoka Griffin, whether the girl liked it or not.



——



Ryoka retired to her room early and slept for about one hour. Well, slept was a strong word. She napped lightly, waking up when her iPhone quietly set off its alarm.

Having an iPhone was incredibly convenient. She just wished she could cast the [Repair] spell rather than needing a mage to do it. Just another reason to visit Ceria.

It was fully night as Ryoka got dressed. She moved around her room quietly, gathering items while her ears strained for the faintest noise.

Nothing. Well, she hadn’t expected to hear anything. She just hoped her closed curtains were enough to conceal her movements.

Ryoka’s eyes flicked to the window. In Celum—in every city in this world really, the night truly was dark. There were no neon lights or passing cars to provide illumination. And while some lamps and torches provided light on the street, the rooftops and many streets had only the faint moonlight to light the way.

Perfect.

Ryoka didn’t have much. Just some clothes, some money, her iPhone, and books. And she’d sold the books she’d already read, so all of her possessions fit neatly into her Runner’s pack. She left a few coins on the table and opened the window silently.



——



The [Assassin] who was reluctantly known as Theofore stood on the inn’s rooftop and tried to keep his senses alert. It was hard, though. He was dressed in nondescript dark clothing, but it wasn’t quite enough to keep the night’s breeze from chilling him. Winter would soon be upon the land, and when that happened, stakeouts such as these would become direly painful without heating crystals or expensive magics.

But this was the job, and he was a professional. Not a high-level one, but he was still competent enough to be assigned to Lady Magnolia on request. That was also because the Guild really didn’t want to waste a higher-level member on a trivial assignment, but this Ryoka Griffin had proven to be quite a challenge to keep track of. The High Passes incident had been disastrous. But at least she was asleep—

A movement below made Theofore jerk up. He heard a window slide open, and then a lithe figure swung herself up onto the roof. There was nowhere to run, and so Ryoka saw Theofore crouched silently in place over her room.

For a moment, both figures stared at each other across the short distance. Then Ryoka got to her feet.

Theofore leapt up, hands going to his knives, but of course he couldn’t attack. He had to keep her in the inn, though, which meant hand-to-hand combat. Again, he was trained in this area as well, but Ryoka Griffin was far stronger than the average Bronze-rank adventurer.

Ryoka stepped forwards on the roof, and Theofore leaned back just in time to avoid the quick jab she aimed at his face. He struck out at her with his one unarmed combat Skill—[Nerve Strike: Paralysis]—but she swatted his hand down.

Damnation. This was bad. The inn’s roof was on a slant that made dodging and fighting twice as hard, even for an [Assassin]. If Theofore had the [Sure Footing] Skill, things might have been different, but—

Ryoka lashed out with an overhead chop. It was completely easy to block, but that was the point. As the [Assassin]’s arm went up, Ryoka stepped forward and kicked.

He’d seen her fight, but he still wasn’t prepared for the low kick that smashed into his right leg, just above his knee. Theofore staggered. It felt as if an axe had struck his leg, numbing it with pain. He danced backwards, trying not to show any trace of agony on his face.

But Ryoka didn’t advance; instead, she hefted her backpack and turned. Theofore cursed and dashed forwards, but she was already running. Ryoka’s bare feet kicked off as she ran along the slanted rooftop. She reached the edge and leapt.

In the darkness of the night, a lone figure hurtled over the rooftop and landed with a heavy thump on another rooftop. She ran, vaulted over a chimney with both hands, and started leaping across buildings in a style known in her world as Parkour.

To Theofore, it looked hauntingly similar to the movements of higher level [Assassins]. He gave chase, cursing as his injured leg slowed him down. Ryoka was already gaining speed. He could not lose her.

She knew he was following her. Her head turned back for a moment as she saw him dashing across the roofs after her. Theofore couldn’t see in the darkness, but he thought she smiled for a moment.

Ryoka turned her head forwards and increased her speed. One hand came up, and a finger rose in an unmistakable gesture.

Theofore growled and ran faster, ignoring his damaged limb. He wouldn’t lose her. He was a professional, and he’d been trained to outrun even [Runners] if necessary.

The two raced from rooftop to rooftop, vaulting, rolling, and jumping, probably giving the inhabitants within a start as they pounded across the uneven terrain. Ryoka was ahead of Theofore by a few houses, but he would catch her soon enough. He was an [Assassin], and she was just a [Runner].

He would catch her. [Assassins] were known for their ability to follow their targets on high-speed chases. They were known for their mastery of climbing and swift movement on rooftops. They were known for—

Ryoka leapt onto another roof and slid down the roof tiles, knocking them out of place. She kicked off the rooftop, flipped over, and rolled as she struck the street cobblestones below. Theofore gaped as Ryoka rolled back onto her feet and kept running without even pausing. In seconds, she was out of sight.

He paused on the rooftop. Even if he’d known what she would do, he would have wasted valuable seconds finding a handhold and swinging down. He definitely would not have tried jumping all the way down like she did. Was it a Skill? Or—

It didn’t matter. She was on the ground, and Theofore knew he wouldn’t catch her now. He knew where she was going, which was a small mercy.

But Theofore knew Lady Magnolia would not be happy with his failure. Slowly, reluctantly, he began moving back to the inn where Ryoka had been staying. He would have to report. There would be repercussions, and they would fall on his head. He would most likely be reassigned or a senior member of the Guild would be sent. But that was only the Guild. More importantly, Lady Magnolia would not be happy.

She wouldn’t be happy at all.



——



Lady Magnolia was a happy woman almost all of the time. She was deliberately happy and good natured because people liked a happy person. It lowered their guards, and besides, she found happiness more preferable to suspicion or pessimism anyways.

And in this case, Magnolia was happy because she was finally able to reach a confrontation. True, it wasn’t on her terms, but you couldn’t win every battle. Ryoka had managed to avoid coming to her for quite some time, so Magnolia would go to her.

It was a poor bargaining position to be the seeking party rather than the one holding all the cards, but sometimes it was necessary to be proactive. And in this case, Magnolia had decided to up the ante.

Happiness was good, as was being kind and generous. Generosity opened many doors that threats would not. Generosity and implicit but unstated threats opened even more doors in Magnolia’s experience.

Case in point. Magnolia was visiting an inn, a lowly establishment not suited to a woman of her rank and station. Personally, she would have enjoyed visiting an inn if it weren’t unseemly, but in this case, her visit was purely business. And here generosity had done its work well. A kind suggestion or two and a few gold coins and the innkeeper had cleared out the inn for her.

It was late, and no doubt the occupants were unhappy to be roused and sent out. But some money and a meal courtesy of Lady Magnolia and most ills would be soothed. It was fine if they disliked her.

The Runners of Celum and the entire region had protested her requirements that they fulfill every delivery. They claimed they were exhausted. They stated, fairly, that she was pushing them past their limits and working them to the bone.

And yet they were levelling. A fact that they conveniently seemed to forget. Magnolia remembered it. Kindness…kindness was a useful, moral thing in some situations. In others, it was inefficient. Useless for doing what had to be done.

A [Butler] opened the carriage door as Magnolia let Ressa help her out. A light rain had begun to fall over the city, so a cloth parasol enchanted with the best [Water Resistance] spells was immediately placed over the [Lady]’s head.

Her maids and a few other men and women she’d discreetly hired had spread out around the inn, and ‘discouraged’ several Runners and a few adventurers who’d been lurking around the back door.

Ressa accompanied Lady Magnolia to the second floor. The other [Assassins] and [Maids] remained below, awaiting Magnolia’s orders. She had no fear. Her Head Maid was enough of an escort even if Ryoka should prove belligerent, and of course a [Lady] had her own means of defense.

But Magnolia did not anticipate much trouble. Or rather, she expected she could handle whatever trouble emerged with her own Skills. She stopped in front of Ryoka’s door and knocked.

No response. Magnolia exchanged a glance with Ressa, and she tried again more loudly.

Again, there was no response. The [Lady] frowned. She would have expected Ryoka to notice the inn’s occupants being roused, but, ah, perhaps the girl was being stubborn. Very well.

Lady Magnolia raised her voice.

“Good evening Miss Griffin. May I come in?”

There was no response.

Strange. Lady Magnolia knew that should have worked. She raised her voice.

“Ryoka, my dear? Hello? Is anyone there?”

Dead silence. Lady Magnolia frowned.

“…Hello?”





1.45


Erin sat with Rags and stared at the mage in her inn. Scattered around the trio was a mess of empty dishes, remnants of a large breakfast.

Ryoka sat in a small room in the Adventurer’s Guild in Esthelm and waited as the half-Elven mage got ready in front of her.

They were separated by many miles in distance, but the two young women had both asked the same question. One had woken up and bribed her mage with food and invited a Goblin to learn. The other had run through the night and arrived tired and sweaty to knock on the [Mage]’s door and ask to be taught.

The mages were different as well. One was a partly Human woman who appeared only slightly older than Ryoka, but whose appearance hinted at something timeless, and whose beauty attracted the eye. But these were only hints, and her beauty was as much due to her heritage as her physical appearance. Yet for all that, she was a rare sight in any nation: a half-Elven mage named Ceria. She answered the door chewing on some dry jerky.

The other mage was Pisces. His gray and dirty robes were as always stained by grass, weather, and the dark places where he roamed. He still had spilled egg on one sleeve of his robes. He was graceful enough too, in his way. He walked well, but he hid any of his good qualities behind the hunched, filthy hermit crab he sometimes resembled.

Different mages, different seekers, and different locations. But the questions asked and answered were mostly the same. Because the nature of the questions revolved around magic, and both mages had studied together, once.



——



At last, Pisces finished the bit of toasted bread and cheese. He flicked the last crumbs onto the floor. Erin glared, but he was as always unimpressed by her ire. He sighed and then looked at Erin and the Goblin sitting next to her.

“If we are to do this, must we include the Goblin?”

Erin’s glare transitioned into a scowl.

“Her name is Rags.”

Pisces raised his eyebrows.

“That is the name you gave her, certainly. Her Goblin name may be unpronounceable to you and I, but I suspect she objects to your pet name as much as I do.”

Rags stared at Pisces. He avoided her gaze—mostly because he’d lost the last three staring contests in a row. Erin glowered, folding her arms.

“It’s better than calling her ‘Goblin’. Besides, she doesn’t mind it. Right, Rags?”

Erin glanced sideways quickly. Rags didn’t exactly avoid her gaze as she stared pointedly at Pisces.

“Ahem. Names aside, why is she here? You asked me to teach you magic.”

“Right, and I thought she’d like to learn too.”

Rags nodded. Pisces sighed and rubbed at his face.

“It is just—may I state my objections now? Magic is not a game or a ‘trick’. I took your request seriously in no small way because I believed you had a genuine desire to learn. Well, the Goblin might wish for the same, but this is no trivial matter. Will you promise to take this seriously?”

“As serious as pie.”

Erin smiled as Pisces glared at her. Then she yelped as Rags jabbed Erin in the side with one cracked fingernail. The girl glared at the small Goblin. The Goblin glared back.

“Fine, fine. I am taking this seriously, Pisces. And I do want to know. So teach me? Please?”

Pisces hesitated.



——



“—Of course I could teach you, Ryoka. And I’d be happy to help—but I have to ask, what brought this on?”

Ceria bustled around the small room she’d rented in the Adventurer’s Guild, hunting for her wand among her strewn-about possessions. She was messy. She chewed on the strip of dried meat as she hunted, kicking over boots, finding a book under her bed covers—

“How long have you been staying here?”

“Uh, two days? Gerial’s room is disgusting, you know. He folds his sheets and lines his boots up. Polishes them too. Calruz is almost as bad. You want to stay? The Guild doesn’t like non-adventurers, but we can ask.”

Ceria finally found her wand under her bed. She glanced up at Ryoka.

“You ran through the night to get here? And dodged an…[Assassin]? I really can’t believe that one, but you described a classic [Assassin] perfectly.”

Ryoka perched on the rickety chair and watched as Ceria’s light hazelnut hair caught the sunlight. For all she’d hung out with Ceria before, the half-Elf truly was different in the unearthly feeling she gave off. Ryoka tried not to stare too openly most of the time, but Ceria was too distracted lifting up her mattress and checking under her pillow for her spellbook now to notice Ryoka’s scrutiny.

The barefoot girl tried not to yawn as she thought of a response. At least she wasn’t still sweaty. The Adventurer’s Guild might not have showers, but they did have washbasins and a handy well.

“It’s just something that really interests me. And defending myself is part of it, but I just want to learn about magic. It was not…widely practiced where I come from.”

Ceria’s brows rose, but she let that comment slide, much to Ryoka’s relief. She swished the wand around in the air with a satisfying sound and smiled at Ryoka.

“Fair enough. Just please don’t be disappointed if you don’t start casting [Fireballs] left and right, okay? Most Humans I’ve tried to teach, well, they’re quite impatient. And it’s not as if having a half-Elf teacher makes learning magic any easier.”

“Perish the thought.”

Ceria had offered Ryoka the only chair, and she had to sit on her bed. She placed her wand on the side table next to Ryoka, and the Runner dragged her chair over so they were facing each other.

“Very well, how should I start? I suppose it would be important to learn how much you know of magic.”

Ryoka spread her hands out wordlessly. Ceria shook her head and smiled.

“That simplifies things. Well then, I guess I’ll tell you what magic is.”



——



Pisces stood up from his chair. Once he’d actually agreed to teach Erin, his demeanor changed. He cleared the floor around him and began pacing back and forth. He spoke like one of Erin’s old high school teachers—the fussy, pedantic ones.

“Magic is an art. It is something only the most gifted and dedicated may aspire to. Those who have true mastery of spellcraft create works of beauty and wonder with each incantation.”



——



Ceria shrugged and touched the tip of her wand gently. It gave off a few violet sparks which faded as they drifted to the floor.

“I don’t know what magic is, exactly. It is a mystery, but I can tell you it is in the air we breathe, in each step we take and the beating of our hearts. Animals can grow to massive sizes with magic, and magical environments can be wondrous—like fields of wheat that can sprout from seeds overnight in Noelictus, for instance. It’s an amazing thing, but it is dangerous. Terribly so, and people have long overestimated their control of it.”



——



Pisces pointed at Erin and Rags. He met their gazes seriously.

“Never underestimate magic. Never take it lightly. Even in practice, even when you believe you have mastered a spell to its utmost. Unlike wielding a hammer or a sewing needle, magic is quite capable of slaying an incautious practitioner outright.”



——



Ceria sighed. Her eyes unfocused for a moment, and she stared through Ryoka.

“Once, everyone used to know magic—or so my grandfather told me. It was as simple as breathing even for children, and all half-Elves learned Tier 2 magic before they’d reached their teenage years. But in Human cities and other nations, students study under older mages or travel to schools like Wistram Academy.”

Ryoka frowned. Wistram…she’d heard that name before.

“They run the Mage’s Guilds, right?”

Ceria scowled for a moment, which was odd because she was a graduate from there. But she covered it with a shrug and sigh.

“All over the world. Not that they send their [Mages] to run every single one, but yes. They help run the [Message] spells, and they’re one of the real teachers of magic. Don’t let the class fool you. A [Mage] can be an adept with lots of training or someone who’s making it up as they go along. Those accredited by Wistram Academy or similar institutions of magic are pretty rare and usually better than the self-taught ones.”



——



Pisces smiled smugly to let both members of his audience know he was rarest of them all. He waved his hand dismissively as he went on.

“[Mages] in general? Pah. Anyone can obtain the class or variations thereof, but they often stagnate and seldom reach Level 20. Indeed, the lack of centralized education between nations has given rise to lesser variations upon the basic [Mage] class. [Hedge Wizards], [Witch Doctors], the dubiously qualified [Spellswords], [Druids]…well I suppose [Druids] are an exception to the rule, and of course let us reserve most of our disdain for the so-called [Sorcerer]…”

At some point, Pisces realized he was losing his audience and stopped. Erin was furiously writing down class names while Rags cleared one ear with her pinkie finger. He paused reluctantly.

“Well, even those types of spell casters are unique. Chosen. They are still capable of casting spells, which is more than can be said for a majority of Humanity or most species.”



——



Ceria sighed and shook her head sadly.

“Not all Humans have the potential to become [Mages]. It’s a matter of talent as well as your body’s innate magical potential.”

Ryoka’s ears metaphorically perked up at that last statement. She frowned at Ceria.

“‘Not all Humans?’ Does that mean that other races have greater or lesser potential to become mages? How about your kind?”



——



Pisces looked disgruntled at Erin’s question. He folded his arms and scowled.

“I assume you mean half-Elves. Yes, their affinity towards spellcasting is far greater than our own. However, a speciesist advantage does not translate into individual ability. Nor does that mean the greatest mages are always nonhuman. In fact, some of the most famous Archmages of this era are Human. Like, er, Verdan Blackwood. Or Archmage Viltach. Great…esteemed [Mages] I have personally met.”

He coughed into the sleeve of his robes, as if this were not the brag he was trying to make it out to be.

“—Any species can learn magic. But not all members have the potential. From Minotaurs to Dullahans to Centaurs, [Mages] exist. Except Gnolls, of course, but they have their [Shamans].”

“Wait, not Gnolls? Why?”

Pisces gave Erin a blank stare.

“One supposes it is their tribal magic. I have never met a Gnoll at Wistram or a [Mage] of their people in general. They have [Shamans]—another kind of magic-user. But no [Mages] in Wistram. I heard a rumor once—nevermind. Minotaurs can be [Mages]. Anyone can be a [Mage]. But Gnolls. Even Goblins. Is this clear enough for you?”

Erin tried to imagine Minotaurs but just came up with those ancient Greek pictures of bull-headed monsters with Human bodies. She had a hard time imagining one of those things muttering spells or reading a book.

Pisces scowled, and Erin stopped grinning.

“Okay, sure. Not all Humans are mages. Some of us are Muggles. Got it?”

“Muggles?”

“Uh—how about Goblins?”

Pisces sniffed.

“I have never heard of any Goblin whose abilities matched that of a proper mage. Their innate capabilities are likely too low to support the strain of spellcasting. Their race as a whole can barely snuff out a candle, let alone magically.”

Both Rags and Erin sat upright in indignation. Erin opened her mouth, but Rags stuck her finger up first.

Since it wasn’t her middle finger but rather her index, both Pisces and Erin stared at it curiously. Rags muttered a few words in her own language and then glared at her fingertip.

Nothing happened. Erin exchanged a glance with Pisces, and then a spark of light made her blink. She looked at Rags’ finger and gasped. A tiny flame danced on her fingertip. Erin stared at it and then at Rags.

“You can do magic?”

Pisces shook his head. He blew, and the flame on Rags’ finger went out. She narrowed her eyes, but he wasn’t impressed by her magic or her stare.

“Tribal magic. Feh. Just as I said—Gnolls and Goblins have access to another, lesser…different kind of magic.”

“Wait a second.”

Erin was extremely confused.

“Isn’t that magic? Why’d you call it tribal magic?”

Pisces rubbed at his temple.

“I should really ban questions. Well, to summarize a complex issue, the magic your little friend used is not true magic. Or at least, not the magic practiced by [Mages]. It is an amalgamation of mana drawn from her tribe, such as it is.”

Erin stared blankly at Pisces.

“What?”

He sighed and pinched the bridge of his nose.

“Allow me to explain another way. Magic surrounds us. It is in everything, but an individual’s capacity for magic varies. And the same goes for our surroundings. Thus, in a highly magically charged environment, spells are naturally easy to cast. In a null zone, a [Mage] must rely solely on his or her own internal magical energy to cast spells.”

“Right. I got that.”

Pisces nodded. He pointed at Rags, who leaned out of the way of his finger.

“Goblins, on the other hand, practice a different form of magic. They draw their mana not only from the environment, but from each other. Thus a single Goblin may use the mana of the entire tribe it is affiliated with to cast spells.”

Erin snapped her fingers, and Rags jumped. The Goblin stared suspiciously at Erin’s hand and immediately tried to duplicate the gesture.

“Oh, I get it. You’re crowd-sourcing magic.”

Pisces blinked at Erin and then decided to ignore her strange comments and Rags’ attempts to learn to snap her own fingers.

“Yes, well, it is a crude thing. But I suppose it is powerful enough in its own way as it allows even Goblin tribes one or two spellcasters of their own. These, ah, ‘shamans’ draw power from the collective. The larger their group is, the more power they wield. Thus, while the Goblins in the area most likely cannot collectively create more than a few sparks, a larger tribe of a thousand souls would create a decently powerful [Shaman]. But it is inefficient.”

Pisces shook his head.

“A thousand people and only one caster? A ridiculous waste.”

“Hey, if it works…”

He sniffed.

“It isn’t proper magic, that’s all. True, these [Shamans] may copy many magic spells, but they are born out of a collective will and lack structure and form. True, they can do things that modern magic cannot easily replicate. I have heard some [Shamans] can heal or move vast groups of people over water, but magic—”

“You can walk on water!? And heal? What am I talking to you about, then? Rags, teach me your ways!”

Erin swung around instantly. Pisces scowled at her as the Goblin smirked at him.

“A neophyte in tribal magic and a tiny tribe can hardly do the greatest feats of magic, Erin. Miss Solstice. Nor can one heal in any kind of magic easily.”

“Oh yeah? What about [Healers]?”

Erin thought she made a good point—until she realized Pisces was smirking at her.

“Ah, well. [Healers] are now simply general practitioners of restorative arts, some of whom are able to cast spells. Most use Skills. Many rely on potions or even simple bandages rather than magic. The definition of the class has changed, and accordingly, so have the skills and spells learnt. It was quite a fascinating phenomenon, actually. I studied it in a course back in Wistram—”

Pisces shook his head.

“But I haven’t time to get into the variation in classes over centuries. Where was I? Oh, of course. Magic. Let us not forget what we are here to learn. Very well, I assume you understand a bit of what magic is. Now to test you.”

Pisces raised his hands and suddenly advanced on Rags and Erin. Their chairs scooted back, and he stopped, looking peeved.

“It is not a dangerous process. I simply wish to ascertain whether or not either of you can become mages. I will test you in the traditional style. Do not move, and I will saturate the area around you with raw mana and allow you to demonstrate your magical ability—or lack thereof.”



——



Ryoka eyed Ceria.

“Will it hurt?”

The half-Elf looked up as she fiddled with her wand.

“Oh, of course not. It’s just a test, that’s all. This is how I was taught as a child. I know Humans do it differently, but it should work for you.”

She raised her wand, and the tip of it glowed silvery-white. Ceria smiled to soothe Ryoka’s apprehension.

“Just watch. I’m going to draw a symbol in the air. I want you to look at it and tell me what you see. Don’t worry; there’s no time limit. And if your eyes start to hurt, you can look away.”

Slowly, Ceria began to move her wand through the air, leaving a glowing afterimage that hovered and shimmered in Ryoka’s vision. Ceria’s wand moved and flicked, tracing a pattern that looked like a bunch of squiggles and straight lines put together randomly.

But—it wasn’t just a two dimensional pattern. Ryoka blinked and rubbed at her eyes. Somehow, Ceria’s wand had begun tracing the image in three dimensions. And then the image shifted again, and the rune—or was it a word?—in the air took on more dimensions than could be captured by a camera.

Ryoka thought she heard the magical word being drawn in the air. Or she felt it. And when Ceria put down her wand, the glowing white symbol burned Ryoka’s vision.

“Just relax. Look at it only as long as you’re comfortable. If you can’t understand it, that’s fine.”

Ceria’s voice came from behind the cloud of shimmering lines. Ryoka opened her eyes and forced herself to focus on the lines.

It was so hard to understand.



——



“I don’t get it.”

Erin complained to Pisces as she held her hands out. The mage grunted. He was holding his hands out as well, palms towards Erin and Rags. Sweat beaded on his forehead, but nothing seemed to be happening.

“I—am infusing the air around you with my mana. It will allow you to cast spells if you have the potential.”

“But how? You never said.”

A vein stood out on Pisces’ sweaty brow. He grunted.

“Just think of something.”

“Like what?”

“Anything! Whatever you wish! Fire, water, a shiny new pot. Will the magic to obey your command!”



——



“Relax. Don’t stare at it so hard. Let it be.”

Ryoka tried to obey. She really did. But the magical word was like an unsolved problem burning in her mind. She wanted to stare at it, to figure out what it meant, and the harder she stared, the more confused her brain became.

It was like a math problem. A hard one, way harder than the AP Calculus class Ryoka had taken back in high school.

Yes—exactly like a math problem. Ryoka blinked. Suddenly, part of the symbol made sense. There were…facets to it that resembled a mathematical equation. Things to be balanced. You couldn’t take magic and use it without repercussions. Cost and exchange.

The Law of Conservation of Energy. Only energy could be destroyed with magic. Yet it was from magic that the cost was taken, and so the law remained more or less intact. But magic was not based in science. What was destroyed could be more or less than what was gained. Magic was. But it obeyed certain rules, like osmosis. It flowed. And it flowed around the world.

Ryoka put her head in her hands and tried to stop thinking, but the word was burning her from the inside out. She was on the cusp of it, and it spoke to her. It was a word. But was there even a name for it in her limited language?

Ceria folded her hands on her lap and smiled slightly as she watched Ryoka.



——



Pisces hissed, and his face scrunched up with concentration. He was already reddening, but neither Goblin nor Human was doing anything.

Erin focused. She really did. She tried thinking of a flame like the one Rags had conjured, but she just ended up thinking of lighters and matches. She tried muttering words.

“Expelliarmus. Alohamora. Wingardium Leviosa. Wingardium leviosa.”

“What are you muttering?”

“Nothing.”

It wasn’t working. Erin couldn’t feel anything except a mild ache in her arms from holding them up for so long. She gritted her teeth. She could do this. She closed her eyes and pushed—



A flame burst upwards and evaporated into a cloud of smoke. Erin gasped and grinned in relief and triumph—



Rags blinked at her finger and then pointed again. Pisces yelped as a flare of fire burst from her fingertip and twisted towards him. It evaporated into smoke before it reached his robes and set him off into a coughing fit. Erin blinked.

“Oh. More tribal magic?”

The [Mage] shook his head and coughed, waving away the smoke. He didn’t seem angry. Instead, he stared at Rags for a few seconds before replying very slowly.

“That was no tribal magic. That was the very beginning of the [Firefly] spell.”

“Really?”

Encouraged, Erin stretched her fingers out and tried as hard as she could to do the same thing. But Pisces wasn’t staring at her. His attention was fixed on the proud Goblin. He put one hand on his chin and started muttering to himself.

“Goblins cannot learn magic in the traditional sense. It is impossible. Surely if they had the potential it would have been discovered, analyzed in centuries hence. The potential ramifications—or is it simple freak divergence? Ancestry?”

He whirled and pointed at Rags, who leaned back.

“You. Goblin child. Was your mother non-Goblin? Or…your father?”

She shook her head.

“What would that matter?”

Erin snapped at Pisces. He jumped, and she glared at his hands. He put them back over hers and talked while he focused again.

“It would explain things. The offspring of Goblins are always Goblins regardless of the partner, male or female. But sometimes Goblins may inherit traits from their…parents. The, ah, victim might play a part in explaining unusual talents. But if this young Goblin—Rags has no immediate non-Goblin ancestors, it would mean—”

“She can be a mage. I get it.”

Erin scowled at her hands. She willed them to catch fire.

“Don’t stop. It’s my turn now. The test isn’t over yet, right? I can still continue?”

Pisces hesitated. Something in his face softened as he looked at Erin.

“…By all means. Keep on trying.”

She ignored the look in his eyes and the way Rags looked at him. Erin stared at her hands. She would cast magic. She could. She would cast magic. She would—



——



Ryoka tried not to scream as she stared at the word and the magic stared back. It was inescapable, even when she closed her eyes. The word was the beginning, and the word was magic, and magic was with her, and the magic was made into reality—

It seared Ryoka’s mind like wildfire. The knowledge burned through her assumptions and all she’d been taught all her life, breaking down walls in her head she’d never known were there. The agony of it was unbearable.

Ceria was shaking her, trying to get Ryoka to move. She was telling Ryoka this shouldn’t be happening, trying to erase the magic word. But it was ingrained in Ryoka’s soul. It was a bit of truth, and it was something to cling to even as the rest of the world fell to pieces.

Ryoka opened her eyes. The magic surged through her, a feeling unlike any other. It wasn’t being more alive. Life was life, but magic—it was opening another door and stepping into a different world.

Suddenly, the pain was gone. Ryoka sat up and brushed Ceria’s hands off her.

“I’m okay. I am. I saw it.”

Ceria peered anxiously into Ryoka’s face. The running girl had bitten her lips so hard she’d drawn blood, but she didn’t seem to notice.

“I saw it.”

Ryoka repeated and stared at the fading shape in the air. She didn’t need to see it, though. She could remember. She would always remember.

The knowledge was in her eyes, in the way Ryoka moved, in everything she was. Ceria looked at Ryoka, and whatever she saw reassured her. She smiled, relieved.

“Well? Did you see what I wrote? Can you tell me what it says?”

Ryoka took a deep breath. It had no real name. None that the English language was capable of expressing, even with a thousand words. But there was still a way to say it.

She opened her mouth.

“[Light].”

In the stillness of the early morning, light shimmered through the window. All was still, and then the light of the sun was joined by something else.

A soft light came up through Ryoka’s chest. It came down her arms and up through her palms, which began to glow. A bauble of shimmering colors drifted up from between Ryoka’s palms, hovering in front of her face as she stared.

It was the most magical thing Ryoka had ever seen. It was hers. A glowing, sharply defined orb of what she could only call light made manifest. It was brighter than a light bulb because it was pure light, and yet it was not blinding either. If she stared hard enough, she could see straight through the other side.

And it wasn’t white light either. Even as Ryoka stared at it, delicate shades of purple coalesced and then slowly transitioned into a deep blue and then brightened to green and then yellow. The light was living, and it shifted even as she held it.

It…it looked sort of like a three dimensional loading wheel on a Mac computer if Ryoka was honest. Even as she thought that, the colors changed and began to rotate in an annoyingly-familiar way.

Ceria blinked down at Ryoka’s light ball in surprise. She placed one hand on her hip and poked at the orb with the other. Her finger passed straight through the orb, making the light shimmer around her pale skin.

“I’ve never seen colors like that before. They’re so…bright.”

She picked up her wand and tapped it on her palm. Instantly—far quicker than Ryoka’s own spell had taken—another shimmering orb of light rose from Ceria’s palm. But her light was different. When she held the orb next to Ryoka’s, the colors changed and deepened in ways Ryoka’s did not.

They were the same colors as the ones flashing through Ryoka’s orb of light, but somehow they were more real. The blue that illuminated the small room wasn’t more vivid or in any way brighter, but it felt deeper, subtler, to Ryoka’s eyes. It was a more complete understanding of what ‘blue’ was, and it made her digital colors pale by comparison.

“Wow.”

As Ryoka stared, the lights in her orb began to shift, matching those of Ceria’s. She stared at the orb and then concentrated.

The ball of light shifted from white light suddenly and then shifted to a dark ultraviolet that made Ceria jump in surprise. Black light. Ryoka blinked. Suddenly, the orb was a rainbow spectrum of colors, a dancing discoball of shifting colors—

All at once, the magic ran out. The light vanished, and Ryoka sat back in her chair. She felt light-headed all of a sudden, as if the blood had suddenly rushed to her head. Weakly, she tried to sit back up, but Ceria pushed her down gently.

“Hold on, hold on, Ryoka! That was incredible! I don’t think I’ve ever seen someone do that with a basic [Light] spell before—let alone figure out how to change a spell so quickly! You just used up all the mana in your body. You’ll be tired until you recover. Here—sit there, and I’ll get you something to eat and drink. That helps.”

Ceria dashed out of the room. Ryoka stared at her hands.

She smiled.



——



The last bead of sweat dropped from Pisces’ chin. He gasped and raised his hands.

“I’m almost drained. I’m sorry. I can’t keep going.”

Erin still stared at her fingertips. If she could just force something to happen. It would only take a second, she knew. One second of realization and she’d be able to figure it out again. She tried and tried but—

Pisces raised the glass of water Rags brought him and tossed it down, heedless of hygiene. He hesitated and then gently patted Erin on the shoulder.

“There’s no more magic left in the air. It’s all dissipated, Erin.”

“Oh.”

Erin stared at her hands. They were still the same hands, but they were somehow smaller, less important. They were good hands, callused from working but unscarred. But they were just hands. Normal.

Pisces cleared his throat. He avoided Erin’s gaze.

“I’m, ah, sorry, Miss Solstice.”

“No, it’s okay. I knew magic wasn’t for everyone. And Rags could do it, right?”

Erin smiled at Rags. The Goblin looked up. Somehow, she had found the time to grab some sausage and cheese from Erin’s kitchen. She guiltily hid both behind her back.

“Eat up. I bet you’re hungry. And you—”

Pisces blinked, but Erin was already out of her seat. She bustled out of the kitchen with blue juice and food in hand and spread it out before him.

“Here. Lunch and dinner’s on the house.”

“You are—most kind. Thank you.”

He began tearing into the food as if he were famished. And he probably was. Erin looked out the window and saw the sun was now beginning to set rather than rise in the sky. It had taken that long?

Pisces gulped and slurped down his food while Rags did the same. They both seemed starved—probably from the magic. Erin stared blankly at them and then sat down.

“So, what next?”

The Human stopped and eyed Erin warily. Rags kept on shoveling.

“What, ah, do you mean—”

“I mean about her. Not me.”

Erin pointed at Rags. The Goblin looked up.

“She can cast magic, right? Not just her tribal magic, but your kind of magic. She can learn. Will you teach her?”

Pisces’ face went blank. He stared at Rags.

“Me? Teach?”

“You were going to teach me a few spells, weren’t you? Well, I can’t cast magic, but Rags can. Will you teach her something?”

Pisces opened his mouth to object, closed it, chewed, and swallowed. His eyes flicked towards the Goblin, towards Erin, and up into the air as he thought rapidly.

“I’ve—well I’ve never considered having an apprentice. You do know I specialize in necromancy, don’t you? But on the other hand—I am quite proficient in general areas of magic. And of course anyone with a basic grasp of the fundamentals could learn. But a Goblin for a student…?”

“Tell you what. If you come in every other day and teach her for lessons, I’ll feed you for free. Deal?”

It took a few minutes of haggling, but eventually Pisces agreed. Rags had no money to pay him, but he was happy enough to accept free food. And it wasn’t as if Erin ever saw money from him anyways.

She left the inn and Pisces beginning to explain the history of magic and the fundamental theories of Magecraft to a bewildered Goblin and walked briskly down the small hill. Her destination was Liscor.

After a few minutes, Erin noticed something following her. She was walking fast enough that the skeleton had to jog to keep up. Erin stopped, and it ran up a few feet behind her and waited patiently. She scowled.

“It’s you. Go away, you.”

The still-unnamed skeleton hesitated. Then it clattered its jaw. Erin glared. She couldn’t understand it, and its understanding of her seemed to be limited.

“I’m going to visit some friends. Don’t follow me into the city. Wait around the inn while I’m gone. Do something useful. I’ll be back before nightfall.”

It hesitated.

“Go. Shoo!”

Erin pointed and then waved her hands at it as if she were chasing chickens. The skeleton reluctantly turned around and marched back towards the inn.

Erin sighed. Then she continued walking.



——



She didn’t have any particular destination in mind, she just didn’t want to be in her inn at the moment. So Erin decided to explore parts of the city she’d never been in before. That wasn’t hard. Most of the city was unexplored. She really only knew the shopping district, part of the residential area where Selys lived, and the main street up to the Adventurer’s Guild.

It was high time to explore the rest of the city. Erin decided to walk down to the Adventurer’s Guild and work her way out from there. She got about twelve steps before a furry hand yanked her out of the crowd.

“Ah, Erin Solstice. I have been waiting for you to return, yes?”

Without knowing quite what was happening, Erin felt herself being speedily towed along by a large, female Gnoll.

“You are not busy? We will have drinks in my home.”

“What? Oh, sure. I’m not busy.”

“Good! My house is only a few minutes away. Follow me.”

Krshia let go of Erin, and the Human walked rather than let herself be pulled along. She didn’t hear the quiet sigh of relief from the other Gnolls who’d been watching the gates for her arrival.



——



Krshia set a large, glistening bowl of chopped meat in front of Erin. It contrasted nicely with the cup of rootish tea in the girl’s hands.

Erin eyed the meat dish, but she’d grown used to Gnolls enough to realize she wasn’t being deliberately insulted.

With a sigh, Erin gingerly picked up a strip of meat. It looked…raw to say the least. But if Gnolls could eat it, she probably could. Krshia wouldn’t knowingly serve her poison was Erin’s feeling.

Still, all of the articles she’d ever read about E. coli and raw meat came back to Erin as she popped the bit of meat into her mouth and chewed.

“Hm? Hm~. Mm!”

It was actually quite good. Erin was surprised. She’d expected the meat to taste like bacon, but it was a fuller, richer experience. Nice and fatty without the actual fat. Immediately, she picked up another cube of meat and chewed it down. She also resolved never to ask what kind of meat it was.

“Ah, you like the scurry-food? Silkap. You can make it into cubes, or a spread, or many forms. It is quite good.”

Krshia sat with a sigh on the chair opposite Erin. It was a nice chair too, wonderfully padded if a little worn and far too big for Erin.

The apartments of a Gnoll were different from that of a Drake like Selys. Open space was clearly important in both homes—or maybe it was just the architecture, but Krshia’s home had far more rugs, padded furniture, and pillows in general. It was also in a state of slightly less-than-stellar cleaning.

Really, it wasn’t bad. But Erin had a definite sense that the standards of cleanliness differed between Drakes and Gnolls. Then again, Krshia’s actual shop was clean of any stray hair, dirt, or stains, so maybe it was just the difference between work and home.

“How are you doing, Krshia?”

Erin delicately sipped at her tea and stuffed her face. Krshia tossed down the meat in her bowl and chewed quickly.

“Mm. I am well, thank you for asking. And I am relieved to speak with you at last. Many people and many things have gotten in the way of our speaking, yes? But it is important we should speak. So I have decided.”

Erin blinked. Somehow, Krshia seemed a bit more intense than usual. She sighed. Another thing to be worried about.

“Sure. What’s up?”

Krshia blinked her great, brown eyes at Erin. She peered at the small Human and frowned.

“You seem dispirited. Is something wrong?”

“Oh, it’s nothing.”

“Mm. This is another polite Human lie, yes?”

“Yeah, but really, it’s nothing.”

Krshia stared at Erin. It was odd. She really had no whites in her eyes. It was just pupil and then brown cornea. It should have been disturbing, but Erin had grown used to it.

She sighed. Krshia waited patiently as Erin picked at another piece of meat and then put it back in her bowl.

“I found out I’m not a mage, that’s all. I can’t cast magic, and I won’t ever be able to.”

She sighed again. Krshia took a long drink of her scalding tea.

“Ah. And who is doing the telling of this?”

“Pisces.”

“Bah.”

“He wasn’t mean about it. He did a test—it looks like I’m just one of the Humans who can’t cast magic, that’s all. It’s not his fault or anything.”

Krshia shook her head. Bits of hair drifted onto her carpet.

“That is not what I meant. He tells you that you are no mage. It is not for him to decide, yes?”

Erin blinked.

“But there was a test. I can’t cast magic, Krshia.”

The female Gnoll shrugged.

“If you were born a Gnoll, this would not be an issue, yes? Human magic is different from ours. We give magic to those who are chosen. A [Shaman] for each tribe is chosen, and they wield the magic of all. We choose who can cast magic, not a single person.”

“Oh, tribal magic. Yeah, Pisces told me about it. But I wasn’t born a Gnoll.”

Krshia raised one eyebrow.

“Yes, and so you are told you can never become a mage because one tells you so. It is regrettable, yes?”

Erin didn’t have anything to say to that. She stared down into her tea.

Krshia clicked her tongue.

“Enough sadness. This is not why I have called you here. Leave magic for [Mages], Erin. It is not as important as they think. People are important. The tribe is important—if you had one. Without it? I see your friends, like Selys, and even your strange guests like the Antinium and…Goblins as being your tribe. Friendships and ties are important.”

She reached out and tapped Erin gently on the chest. It was still a heavy tap, but it made Erin feel better.

“Okay, sure. What did you want to talk to me about so much, Krshia?”

The Gnoll paused and seemed to choose her words.

“I have been thinking much since I watched you play your game of chess. Against the Antinium named Pawn. Many things you said I heard and wondered at.”

Erin looked blank.

“Like what? You mean the chess? Don’t worry, no one gets that.”

For a second, she could have sworn Krshia was eying her to see if Erin was laughing. But then the Gnoll briskly shook her head again.

“No. It is what you said. You come from another world. I heard you speak of it and wondered at the miracle.”

Erin’s face was completely blank. Then her eyes widened.

“I said that?”

Krshia nodded gravely. Her eyes were fixated on Erin’s face.

The Human didn’t seem to know how to react. A brief moment of chagrin was replaced by some head scratching. After a few seconds, Erin looked up and shrugged.

“Oh, um, yeah. I’m from another world. Sorry I didn’t tell you earlier.”

Krshia stared. Possibly it was the blasé way Erin said it, without regard to the way it made the Gnoll’s heart skip and jump. Oblivious, Erin continued.

“I come from a place called Michigan. It’s pretty nice there. Lots of big lakes, wonderful weather—except when it snows or rains really hard, of course. I lived in a nice house, with my folks—”

She paused. For a second, Erin stared down into her cup and then continued as if nothing had happened.

“Um, one day, I found myself here. I just turned a corner and blam.”

“Blam?”

“I found myself staring at this big lizard. With wings. A Dragon.”

“A Dragon?”

“Yeah. It breathed fire at me, and I ran. Then there were some Goblins…and then I found the inn. After that, it was all survival until I met Klbkch and Relc and then—you know the rest.”

Again, there was something off-putting about the way Erin said everything so easily. Krshia had to shake her head several times and take a few more gulps of tea to steady her nerves.

“You survived much.”

“I guess.”

Erin shrugged. It didn’t feel like a lot. It felt like a lifetime, actually, but through it all, she’d just kept moving, kept trying to survive. And really, what had she done? Repaired a few doors, swept some dust out, leveled up as an [Innkeeper] a bit…and gotten a friend killed.

Not much at all.

“I ask this in confidence. I promise by my tribe and by the open sky and earth that I would never betray your trust or secrets given. But I must ask, and my kin must know. This land you come from—it is not like this one, yes?”

Erin paused and blinked at Krshia. It sounded like a serious oath, but what did Krshia say about her kin?

“You mean you’re going to tell…other Gnolls?”

Krshia hesitated and then placed her tea cup down as she nodded.

“Mm. Yes. If I must, I think it is better to share a secret that is important. And these Gnolls shall tell others if need be. But they shall keep it a secret within our tribe, our people. Your secret shall not be spoken to any not of Gnollkind. That is what I meant. I swear upon Silverfang and the upcoming Meeting of Tribes—we shall not betray your trust. And it will be all Gnolls, all the Gnolls of the Great Plains who hold that secret and support you, if need be.”

A promise by an entire species to keep silent. Erin would have laughed, but she felt that might actually result in violence. Krshia looked serious, and Erin thought the Gnoll was serious.

And—what did Erin have to lose? Besides her life? So she shrugged.

“My world? It’s not like this one. Not at all. It’s so different I can’t even explain how strange it is to be here.”

“Mm. How so? Eat, drink. But tell me. I am very curious.”

How did you describe a world without magic and levels to someone who didn’t even exist in your world? For that matter, how would you describe a world a thousand years more advanced? Erin scratched at her head and did her best.

“Well—we’ve got a lot more technology. And less magic. No magic, actually. And we don’t have Levels or Classes or Skills, but we do have a lot more Humans. Actually, we have only Humans. There aren’t any Gnolls or Drakes or any monsters where I come from. And—are you okay, Krshia?”

The Gnoll’s eyes were bugging out in her head. It was such an alarming change from the Gnoll’s usually half-lidded stare that Erin was worried.

“Take no mind of me. G-go on.”

Krshia drained her cup and dragged over a large and dented tea pot. She refilled her cup with furry hands that shook and offered Erin a refill. The Human politely waved the tea away.

“You say this is a world full of Humans? That is strange, yes? Are there no other creatures?”

Erin nodded and hastily amended her sentence.

“Oh tons of creatures. Lots of animals. Dogs, cats, penguins, cows…but just no people like—like you. People who think and speak is what I mean.”

“I…see…”

Krshia’s head was throbbing. The Gnoll would have loved nothing better than to sit in a corner and bang her head against a wall just imagining what Erin was saying. Better yet, she would have loved to overturn the table and call Erin a tail-biting liar. But [Spot Deception] was a [Merchant] and a [Shopkeeper]’s skill, and if it wasn’t as good as [Detect Guilt] or [Sense Intentions], it was still more than a match for a large falsehood. What Erin was saying was true.

“These Humans. You Humans.”

Krshia stumbled over her tongue and tried to speak casually.

“How many of them are there? How many nations? Is it a small world?”

“Sorta? It feels small sometimes. I know overpopulation is an issue.”

Erin rolled her eyes upwards as she thought.

“Um, is it six or seven? Seven? I think we’re supposed to have eight sometime soon.”

“Eight what? Eight countries?”

“No, eight billion Humans.”

Krshia looked blank.

“I do not know this word. Erin, what is a ‘billion’? It is a counting number, yes?”

“Yeah. Do you know, um, million?”

The Gnoll’s brows scrunched together.

“It is a word I heard with Goblins. A million is a large number. Larger than mountains. A thousand thousands, yes?”

“…Yes? I think so. Wait…let me do the math.”

Erin tried to imagine how many zeros were in a million.

“Yeah. That’s about right.”

“Mm. Then is a billion two millions?”

“Oh, no.”

Erin laughed at Krshia’s confusion. She didn’t notice the Gnoll’s hand trembling on her cup.

“A billion is a thousand millions. So that’d be a thousand thousand thousands. What a tongue twister. It’d be…a hundred thousand ten thousand times. Does that make sense?”

Erin looked at Krshia. The Gnoll was sitting very still in her chair.

“Krshia?”

Gnolls didn’t have any visible skin, just fur. But her ears were standing straight up on her head. Between the slats in her chair, Erin could see the Gnoll’s tail was fully erect as well.

Without a word, and without a single hint of warning, the Gnoll suddenly tipped forwards in her chair in a dead faint. Erin yelped and dove just in time as Krshia crashed into her table, shattering porcelain and upending the kettle of tea.

“Krshia, what’s wrong?”

Erin bent over the unconscious Gnoll and, with great effort, tilted her upright. The shards of broken pottery hadn’t even cut the Gnoll through her fur, but Krshia was still unconscious. Only the—well, the blacks of Krshia’s eyes were showing.

“Are you okay? What happened? Speak to me, Krshia.”

But no matter how hard Erin shook the Gnoll, she didn’t come round. Desperately, Erin propped Krshia up against her chair and wavered between going for help and waiting for Krshia to wake up. It didn’t seem like she’d been hurt.

Erin sat among the spilled meat and cooling tea. Her heart still hurt, but mercifully, she had something to panic about. She put her head in her hands.

“Why does this keep happening to me?”

Why had Krshia wanted to talk to her, anyways? It probably wasn’t best to tell her about her world—at least the parts about hyenas being hunted—or all the other bad parts, really. She’d been so interested. And Erin had remembered—

She cut her brain off as it thought of home. No. Focus. Krshia was important. If she didn’t wake up in ten minutes, Erin would go get someone. Another Gnoll, probably. She’d been seeing more of them around than normal.

But why had Krshia fainted? If that was what had happened.

“Why?”

Erin shook her head. She had no idea. But—

“Was it something I said?”





1.46


When Krshia came round, she did so dramatically. Erin had fussed over her for a few minutes before realizing there was no way she was going to be able to pick the Gnoll woman up. She was twice Erin’s weight, and her fur made her look even bigger. So Erin just sat and scrutinized her.

She really was sort of a woman of the tribes, right? For all she was a [Shopkeeper], Krshia apparently knew how to shoot a bow, and she had lived most her life outside the walls of a city. Gnolls had light, sparse clothing mostly, and they seemed to like hunting and such.

Perhaps Gnolls weren’t as—as civilized as other races. But of course that was the wrong thing for Erin to think. It was more that Gnolls still lived in close proximity to monsters, even more so than Drakes did. They had to be ready to defend themselves in case one attacked their villages. That was probably why when Krshia sat up gasping, her claws popped out of her paws and she nearly took Erin’s head off.

It was an accident. Erin was nearly 100% sure of that. And Krshia had apologized several times.

After they’d patched up Erin’s cheek and poured a tiny bit of healing potion on the cut to make it heal faster, the Gnoll and Human cleaned up the broken table and spilled tea. Then they began the tea party again, only with less party and very cold tea.

Krshia had some lovely cheese that Erin didn’t mind snacking on. It was wonderfully sharp, and the tea wasn’t half bad, even after it had cooled.

“Apologies again, Erin.”

The large Gnoll sighed as she lowered herself back into her chair and kicked the remnants of her coffee table aside. The replacement she’d brought was a footstool, which she balanced the platter of cheese on.

“It was nothing. Really. But why did you faint?”

“Mm. I was merely surprised. Forgive me.”

Krshia took a drink from her tea and shuddered for a second.

“The Humans on your planet—I was not prepared for such a number.”

“What? Oh, you mean eight billion? I guess that’s a lot.”

“It is.”

“Ah. Um. Was it that surprising?”

Erin’s complete incomprehension gave Krshia a gentle urge to smack her. But Humans were fragile, so though her paw twitched, she kept her voice pleasant.

“It may have been shock or perhaps it was something I ate, yes?”

The young woman glanced at the bowl of meats she still hadn’t finished.

“I sure hope not.”

“That was a joke.”

Krshia shook her head. Humans really had no sense of humor. They could never tell when she was being ironic, sardonic, sarcastic, or just teasing them. Their faces were easy to read on, the other paw.

“Let us put the interruption behind us. You were telling me about your world. It has many people—this I now realize. But what else is different?”

Erin frowned, scratched at her ear with one finger, and shrugged helplessly.

“Uh, everything? I mean, most things. We’ve got mountains and water and stuff like you guys, but in terms of technology or buildings or…everything’s different.”

Krshia leaned forwards.

“I would like to know details of these differences. Can you give me a few important changes between our worlds? Besides the lack of Levels and Classes.”

“Well—there’s a lot to say. I mean, we’ve got such different cultures. Ours is more adv—more different in many ways. Like—we have weapons and you have weapons, but ours are more shooty.”

“Shooty?”

“Yeah. Like ‘blam’.”

Erin made a gun with her fingers and pointed while making the sound. Krshia blinked at her, uncomprehending.

“What I mean is, we don’t use swords. Or axes. We have guns. They’re, uh, sort of like crossbows but better? Do you know what crossbows are?”

“I…see. Yes, I have heard of crossbows. I know them decently well, though bows—I am familiar with in their many forms. Crossbows. Hrr. And you have many of these weapons? They are powerful, yes?”

“Yeah. But we don’t use them on monsters. We just kill each other with them. And we don’t use horses—well we do use horses, but we also have other ways to travel. Like cars.”

In some ways, fainting had been more relaxing for Krshia than talking to Erin. Her head was beginning to hurt.

“Cars? What are these creatures?”

“They’re not animals. They’re, uh, moving, metal boxes. On wheels.”

“You—push them around, yes?”

“No…it’s more like they move because we burn stuff inside them. Combustion. They drive themselves. Well I mean, they don’t drive themselves. You need a Human in one to drive it. But some of the newer cars can drive themselves. But most can’t. And they need fuel. Gasoline. That’s a type of oil, I think.”

Erin looked helplessly at Krshia. The Gnoll was massaging her temples.

“Um. Did any of that make sense?”



——



They tried for another half hour before they gave up. Erin did her best, but she really didn’t know how half of the things in her world worked. Her best explanation of cars was that they had some kind of engine-creature in its stomach that ate oil and made the car move faster than a horse. And she had no idea how planes actually flew, especially when Krshia kept asking her how something that was made of metal could ever fly without magic.

It wasn’t as if Erin had failed science class or didn’t know how things worked. But she hadn’t exactly taken Engineering 101 either. In fact, she hadn’t gone into college, preferring to work as a chess tutor and tournament contender to save up money before she enrolled.

All of that meant—well, it just meant that while Erin could tell Krshia a lot of fantastical things, it sounded like she was making everything up. And Krshia was clearly distracted. She kept rubbing at her head for one thing. Erin guessed she’d hit it pretty hard when she fell over.

“Enough, enough. I am weary, and you are thirsty. Drink, and let us talk of other things for the moment.”

Erin nodded and accepted a refill of the new batch of tea Krshia had brewed while they spoke. She eyed the Gnoll.

“Well, I guess I can’t really explain my world that well. But your world is equally strange to me. Stuff like magic—that’s just fairy tales in my world.”

“Ah, you have…Winter Sprites? I have heard a few call them ‘faeries’.”

“No, I…you know what? Forget it. I’m just saying we don’t have magic. So when I came here, I had no idea how anything worked.”

“Hmm. I remember. You were lost and very afraid, then. But you have done well since, yes?”

“I guess.”

“There is no guessing. I have seen how you have improved and made this land your home. We have witnessed your triumphs. We have seen your victories. They are to be proud of, Erin Solstice.”

Erin sighed and shook her head in denial. Then, suddenly, she looked up at Krshia. A flicker of suspicion crossed her face.

“Krshia? Why did you want to talk with me about my world?”

Krshia thought fast while keeping her face straight. She answered carefully.

“I was simply curious. It is natural to question such statements, is it not?”

“I guess. But you just said you’d been watching me. And you said ‘we’. Is that why I keep seeing a bunch of Gnolls wherever I go?”

For a Human, Erin was surprisingly perceptive at times. Krshia cursed her slip of the tongue and kept a straight face. But Erin had played too many games of chess. She could see when someone had on a poker face. Her eyes narrowed.

“Right. I guess it’s time for my questions. Krshia, what do the Gnolls want with me?”

Krshia tapped her claw against her teacup. Again, she chose her next sentence with extreme care, as if she were negotiating a sale worth hundreds of gold pieces.

“The Gnolls who live in Liscor have many desires. We hoped—that there might be some things that one such as you could help us with. But that is only part of the reason I asked you here. The other part was to ask a question. What does Erin Solstice want?”

Erin blinked as the question came straight back at her.

“What do I want?”

“Everything is give and take, yes? We would give much for knowledge. Items of worth. Things that could help our people. But all things have a price. We would help you grant your desires if you had something to offer in exchange.”

“I don’t have anything to give you. Besides food. But I buy that from you.”

“It may be you do not realize your own worth. A stranger from a far-off land has many secrets, many skills of worth she does not know she possesses, yes?”

“Maybe. I doubt it, though.”

“Regardless. I asked you a question. What is it you wish? If possible, we would help you. Or if my tribe disagrees, I would help you not as one seeking a bargain but as a friend.”

Erin smiled at Krshia.

“Well, when you put it like that—I still don’t know.”

Krshia frowned.

“There are many things Humans want. Surely you have the same wishes, yes? Do you want money?”

“What would I use it on? Repairing the inn? I guess money’d be nice, but I’m okay.”

“Hrm. Then do you wish for more levels? Better weapons? These things many Humans desire. Or—an attractive mate? A fertile one?”

“No, no, no, and definitely no. I’m not interested in any of that. Really. I already have a lot of those adventurers chatting me up in the street.”

“Hrrm.”

This was tricky. Krshia had already run through all the things she would have wanted. Erin didn’t exactly seem like she was too interested in mating at the moment, and she was no warrior—at least, she didn’t like fighting. But neither was she happy.

“Then what is it you wish?”

Erin shrugged. She stared at her half-empty tea cup, at the ceiling, around Krshia’s room—and then she seemed to realize what she was missing. She looked at Krshia.

“I want to go home.”

It was a simple sentence, delivered casually. But the wave of emotion Krshia smelled coming off of Erin told an entirely different story. The Gnoll shopkeeper had a strong desire to wrinkle her nose or rub at it, but that would have given her away.

“I see. But if you have not returned already, you do not know the way back, yes?”

“Yes—I mean, no. I don’t.”

Erin shook her head, distracted. Now that she’d said what was in her heart, her entire demeanor had changed. Her body language was shifting, and the turmoil of emotions within her was making Krshia’s nose twitch.

“This desire of yours. You wish for it strongly, yes?”

“No.”

Erin lied and then corrected her lie as Krshia raised one eyebrow.

“Maybe. Yes. I don’t want to insult this place. It’s a beautiful world you have here, Krshia. It really is more amazing than anything from my world. And I’ve made friends. Selys, Pawn, you…even Pisces. All that’s good, but—”

She paused and then looked down into her cup. Erin’s voice was quiet.

“I have family back home. My mom and my dad. I can’t believe I don’t think of them more often, but I guess I’m just trying to stay sane here. And I had friends. It’s not like I miss them most of the time—I try not to think about it. But…I didn’t even get to say goodbye, y’know?”

For two seconds, it looked as if she would break. Erin blinked rapidly and brushed at her eyes. But the tears never fell. She sighed, and the moment was past.

“Sorry. It’s just—I’d really like to go home. If I could. I know it might be impossible. I don’t even know if it was some kind of spell or a…a cosmic accident that brought me here. But if I could, I want to go home.”

Krshia stared at Erin, her dark eyes unblinking. She said nothing out loud, but she was thinking. For a second, the bright, cheerful nature of Erin had broken. It was a mask, a layer of protection around her heart. She was strong, but fragile, like the Antinium were underneath their shells. Her hide was tough. But it would all break down if Krshia pushed just a tiny bit—

The Gnoll pretended nothing had happened and went on talking until Erin’s emotions were fully back under her control. Now was not the time for such things.

“It may have been magic. Perhaps. I do not know such things. I am merely a [Shopkeeper]. But I have never heard of one crossing from other worlds through a spell. That is the stuff of legends, creating magical dimensions and crossing betwixt them. But there are many magics that teleport. Perhaps a truly great [Mage] may have used such a spell by accident or mistake.”

Erin frowned speculatively.

“Maybe. It didn’t feel like magic back then. But I’ve never been teleported, so maybe it was magic and I just didn’t notice. It really felt like an accident.”

“Accident or not, you are here. And perhaps the cause is irrelevant, yes? You are here. The question is not what brought you here, but how you may return.”

“And is magic the answer?”

“Most likely. I would not know of any other way. But as I have said, it would take a [Mage], no—an [Archmage] to cast such a spell, if it can be done.”

“Right. You wouldn’t happen to have one of those lying around, would you?”

Krshia shook her head.

“They are the rarest of spellcasters. I know of only a few, and none live on this continent. Nor are they [Archmages] proper…but they are the best you could ask for, for magical help.”

“Great.”

Erin shook her head. Krshia smiled.

“Do not despair before even hearing of them, yes? Listen. There are several archmages. One on the Human continent to the north. Two more on other continents. But at least three have homes in Wistram, the Isle of Mages.”

Erin perked up at that.

“Really? Three?”

“They come and go. But Wistram is their home. If you waited there for a month, you would surely see at least one, yes? And perhaps it is not an Archmage you need but the right spell.”

“So what you’re saying is that Wistram is the place I would want to go if I wanted to find out about getting home, right?”

“Mm. Perhaps.”

Erin frowned because Krshia was frowning.

“What’s wrong?”

“It is nothing. I am sure if you travelled to Wistram they would allow you entry. But it is not such a good place that I would tell you to travel alone, yes?”

“Really? But I thought it was like Hogw—a, uh, school for mages. Wouldn’t it be safe and full of cool spells and stuff?”

Krshia flicked her fingers dismissively.

“Perhaps some may call it so. But your Pisces, he graduated from Wistram did he not? And he is a [Necromancer] and a thief and gravedigger.”

“Well, when you put it that way…”

“And Wistram is made up of many Humans, yes? They are petty and squabble as many of your kind do. Non-humans live among them, of course, but it is no haven. Wistram is no friend to the magicless.”

A dark frown crossed Krshia’s face. Erin sat still, remembering to breathe. She’d forgotten how scary Gnolls could be. On one hand, they were like giant teddy bears, but on the other hand, they greatly resembled giant teddy bears, complete with razor-sharp claws.

“Did something happen to you, Krshia? Did you—did you ever go to Wistram?”

“I?”

Krshia sniffed dismissively and shook her head.

“I would not visit such a place. Nor would any of my kind, even to trade and earn money. We do not deal with those fools.”

“Fools?”

Krshia shook her head.

“It is an old story. I would not trouble you with it, Erin.”

“No, tell me. Please. I’m interested.”

The Gnoll hesitated, but Erin was openly earnest. And because it was clearly upsetting her, Krshia told the story.

“Wistram is a place of magic. It is the place for mages to go and learn, yes? Other cities have their own guilds and even schools, and some nations pay for mages to learn and serve. But Wistram is nationless and a nation unto itself. They have never bowed to any ruler and never shall. So they are thought of well by all who practice magic. But they are fools.”

Her fingers clenched on her tea cup and relaxed before they could shatter the delicate porcelain.

“Nearly forty years ago, the Gnoll tribes gathered to talk and forge alliances and plans for the future. It is done every twenty years, and it is an important time. At that time, we had heard much of Wistram, and many among us wished for Gnolls to learn such secrets as the Academy teaches. It is said that Gnolls cannot be [Mages]—well, why not test that theory? No Gnoll had ever taught themselves magic, but tribe Weatherfur suggested we ask the greatest teachers in the world if there is even a chance it could be done. Sensible, yes?”

Erin sat in her chair, listening to Krshia’s rumbling voice and thinking. She already thought she knew how the story ended, but she wondered other things. Had Krshia been there? How old was she? And—what did the Gnolls want? But Krshia went on, and Erin was sucked into her story.

“It was decided that the tribes would send one of our finest young [Shamans] to Wistram to ask admission. We chose one who was young but was talented beyond his years and gave him magical artifacts from each tribe and much coin to make the journey. Our warriors took him to a port city, and he took a ship to Wistram, braving storms and pirates on his long journey.”

If it was possible, Krshia’s expression turned even angrier. Her hackles raised. Erin watched as the hair on the back of Krshia’s neck stood upright, fascinated.

“The mages at Wistram gave the Gnoll a test when he asked to be entered into the Academy. They did not believe him when he claimed to be a spellcaster as they were. They asked him to cast spells, but he was alone, yes? Alone, and without any to draw on. Without any others, there is no magic to cast for [Shamans]. That is why he asked to be taught as a normal student. But the mages, they did not listen. They cast him out and declared all Gnolls to be magic-deficient. Talentless.”

Krshia growled and spat. Erin stared at the glob of spit dripping from one of the Gnoll’s dressers and wondered if she were going to clean that up later.

“That is why to this day [Mages] from Wistram are not welcome among the tribes and why we do not trade with their island. And that is why even if you go, you must not trust them, Erin Solstice. The mages of Wistram do not trust any who do not have magic they recognize.”

Erin nodded. Krshia’s story sounded like a case of good old-fashioned racism or maybe just ignorance. Either way, she understood the Gnoll’s ire. But it didn’t change things.

“I’d still like to talk to a mage. Or—a mage besides Pisces, at least.”

Krshia shrugged, tired from telling her story.

“There are several in the city. But Drake mages, the strong ones, fight with their army, yes? And magic is not as widely practiced in these lands. Perhaps you would find one wise enough to help you, but you would search long.”

“So Wistram’s my only option? I mean, I’m not saying I’d just get up and head over there but—”

“If you wish to return home, that may be your best choice.”

Erin sat still for a while, staring into her tea cup. She raised it to her lips and took a long drink of the bitter and now cold tea.

“Okay. Okay. That’s—that’s something to aim for, at least.”

“It is good to have a goal. And perhaps that is something we may assist you with.”

“Really? I mean, why? And how? Is it that hard to get to Wistram?”

Krshia shrugged.

“Perhaps not hard for one with much coin, but it is a long ways away and dangerous for a lone Human female who is not a warrior, and even one who is, yes? Anyone may attempt the journey to Wistram, but it is another thing to make the journey and survive.”

That didn’t sound good. At all. Erin frowned.

“What’s so hard about it? You hire a carriage, get to a port city, jump on a boat, and you’re nearly there, right?”

Krshia laughed quietly and tapped Erin on the shoulder. Again, Gnolls had a heavy tap that was more like a shove.

“It is good to be young and eager. But it is not good to stop thinking, yes? Wistram is protected by more than mages. The seas around the college are calm at times, but at other times, they devour ships and sink fleets. Especially in the winter.”

She shook her head at Erin.

“Even if you left now, winter would freeze you at sea as you travelled west, and the storms would crack the hull of any ship foolish enough to brave the oceans. And there is the cost to consider as well.”

“Oh, right. Hiring a ship would be really expensive, right?”

“You would seek passage on a ship to Wistram. That would not be as expensive, but I talk of the cost of the journey. To travel north to the port cities safely would require joining a caravan that hires adventurers. That costs coin. A good place on a good ship with an able captain requires coin. A bodyguard or one who would protect you costs coin. And seeking lodging in Wistram—”

“I get it. It costs a lot of coin, right?”

Krshia sniffed at Erin and flicked her forehead lightly like one would a child. Only in this case it really hurt.

“Ow! Stop that! Your claws are sharp!”

“Apologies. But you are still not thinking. Say you reach Wistram after travelling so far. Tell me, Erin Solstice, how do you plan on finding a mage to bring you home?”

“Well…”

Erin paused and blinked.

“I, uh, hadn’t thought of that. I guess I’d just go to their headmaster and ask for help?”

Krshia laughed hard and long.

“That would be a sight to see. Yes, and talking to such a leader among mages would be an achievement in itself if he even existed! Wistram has a Council and its Archmages. You might find many influential persons, but why would they listen? You are just a child speaking of other worlds. Even if you could prove your truth, which is simple enough, how would you convince them to help you?”

“Well—I’m from another world. Isn’t that enough?”

“Perhaps to some. But while I believe you—how would you prove it to them? And even assuming they wished to help—do you think Wistram does anything for free?”

Erin’s heart sank.

“So you’re saying I’d need to pay a mage to help me?”

Krshia nodded. Well, she nodded, shrugged, and seemed unclear.

“I am not one to make idle promises, Erin Solstice. Many might help you for free, but you would not like me if you had gone to Wistram only to find no one willing to hear you unless you had gold to pay them, eh? To be certain, either have the funds to buy a mage to assist you or to find a mage worthy and willing to help you. That is the real cost I speak of.”

Things were never so simple as they were in books. It was Erin’s turn to rub at her head with her hands. If this were Harry Potter, she’d be able to walk up to Diagon Alley and—well, she was a muggle and she’d forgotten the password, so they wouldn’t let her in, and even if she did walk around asking people if they were wizards—

“This sucks. You’re telling me I have to pay to go home?”

“Is it not always so?”

Erin scowled at Krshia, but the Gnoll just smiled back. Erin reluctantly began to think, counting off on her fingers.

“Okay. Say that is my goal. How much money would I need, do you think? A hundred gold pieces for the journey? And then maybe another hundred pieces to find a place to stay? And—um, let’s call it six hundred for finding a mage willing to help me? That’s…a lot.”

“Too much, I think.”

Krshia shook her head at Erin.

“You have no idea of pricing, yes? For sixty pieces perhaps I could bring you to Wistram. It would be a longer journey, and you would need to find one to guard you. But it could be done. And a hundred gold pieces would last you several years even in Wistram. But the real price is in the mage.”

Erin’s heart sunk even lower.

“Six hundred gold pieces not enough?”

“It is not about money. Mages have much money, and offering to pay them may work or it may not. Your money would be of little interest to all but the lowest-level ones. They are not what you want, I am thinking.”

“No, definitely not.”

“We spoke of archmages, yes? They are the ones you seek. Finding an audience with them through wit or bribery—that is your challenge. For that, I would take as much money as I could bring and something to attract their attention.”

Erin sat back in her chair, overwhelmed at the idea—not to mention the cost. Krshia laughed again.

“Do not despair. These things seem large, but they are not overwhelming, yes? Sit. Drink. And let me talk to you of what the Gnolls might do. And what you may do for us.”

Erin sat back in her chair as Krshia stood up. She let the Gnoll bustle around her home, refilling Erin’s cup with more tea, offering her more food and thought. She thought about the journey, what Krshia was proposing, and the danger and difficulty involved at every step. But she also thought of something else.

She remembered a quiet home, two people she knew she could go to with every worry. She thought of her bed, her friends. She thought of home and realized that was where she really wanted to go.



——



When Erin walked out of Krshia’s home, it was nearly nightfall. The Gnoll insisted she walk Erin back to the gates, and it was only with some convincing that Erin told her she’d be fine on the way back. She’d spotted a shiny, bald…head with no hair or even skin attached hiding on a nearby hillside, and she didn’t want the Gnoll to freak out.

It would have taken a lot for Krshia to freak out at this stage anyways, even if she’d known how to freak out properly. It had been a long conversation Erin and Krshia had had, ranging from the logistics of how one might travel from Liscor all the way to Wistram Academy, hundreds—perhaps thousands of miles away. Erin had forgotten to ask the exact distances, probably because she was too afraid to.

But between talk of money and the journey, Krshia had talked with Erin about her world and extracted a promise for the Human girl to tell her more at another time. That had been what had set the Gnoll’s stomach jumping and was the main reason she didn’t pick up on the dead smell of bones, magic, and marrow blowing her way.

She watched Erin disappear into the night, ignoring the gate guard until the Human had crested a hill. She could hear Erin shouting something, but she was too far away at that point even for the Gnoll’s ears to pick up what she was saying.

Only then did Krshia turn to the guard at the gates who was deliberately ignoring her and nudge him.

“There is no one watching. You can drop the act, Tkrn. You are a terrible pretender of things in any case.”

Tkrn, the Gnoll guardsman who had been assigned to the gates for the last few days in a row, grinned toothily at Krshia.

“Aunt, finally! I was wondering if you were going to stab Erin or call for help. If she really was a [Spy] from Terandria or something.”

Krshia scowled at the other Gnoll and jabbed him in the ribs. Hard. Even though the other Gnoll was wearing chainmail, he still winced.

“I told you it would not come to that. And you and the others are fools for suggesting it and dreaming her disappearance would not be noticed. Kill a lost child?”

Tkrn scowled and rubbed at his side sulkily. But he didn’t dare talk back. Instead, he cast his eyes to where Erin had disappeared.

“I just—it was a joke! Anyways, she’s really what she seems to be?”

Krshia snorted.

“As I have said, so it is. She is no threat; merely a lost one seeking to return home.”

Tkrn shook his head.

“So it is true? She is from another world?”

“I sense the truth of it. Yes, she is one who came here by mistake.”

Again, the other Gnoll shook his head in disbelief.

“When I first smelled her, she stank of a place full of oil and metal and burning. Is her world like that?”

Krshia paused, thinking.

“From what she said—and did not say—it is a world of Humans. They alone live in it. Whether that is a better one than this I do not know.”

“But it is different.”

“Yes. Very. In ways that are disturbing and grand. But she did not speak much of these differences, and I understood less. But she is—useful. She is important.”

“But she wants to go home, too. So we’re the only ones who can help her. Which means we get to ask favors of her, right? Maybe even present her to the Meeting of Tribes for Silverfang’s honor?”

Krshia gave Tkrn a baleful look, and he wilted.

“You were supposed to be looking out for other listeners, not eavesdropping, fool. What point is there hearing what I will tell the others anyways?”

“But it doesn’t matter, does it? No one was listening that I saw.”

Tkrn whined at Krshia, but the other Gnoll didn’t relent. She shook her head.

“We need Erin Solstice more than she needs us, yes? And we do not want her speaking with others who would know her value.”

Krshia prodded Tkrn none-too-gently in the chest.

“So be more alert! When she comes back, I wish to know. And tonight, ask one of the Runners. Lv or Tshana. They must send a message to the tribes.”

Tkrn looked up. That was serious. He listened carefully as Krshia spoke.

“They must send more of our people here. Wise ones. I ask for counsel as well, of all I have learned. I will speak with all those in the city as soon as all can be gathered and send a second Runner. But this first one must go at once.”

“Will you ask anything else of them?”

“Ask them if they have found others such as Erin. And if they have not found them, tell them to search! Tell them to look among Humans for ones who stand out and speak and act differently.”

Tkrn straightened and nodded. He had a sword at his waist and a shield buckled to one arm. But he would have been dangerous without either weapon. Well. Moderately dangerous. His eyes glinted in the moonlight.

“Do you want me to gather some others to watch over her inn? We could set up camp a few miles away in secret. Watch Captain Zevara will notice if I’m off-duty, but the others could work in shifts.”

Again, for his trouble, Tkrn earned another elbow that made him wince. Krshia flattened her ears and glared at him.

“You are foolish, Tkrn. Just like a cub on his first hunt. If we place others around her inn, she will notice, yes? But before she does, others will notice and ask questions. And we have few warriors in the city as it is.”

Tkrn whined. He didn’t like speaking to Krshia, especially because the punishment for making mistakes was so painful.

“How can we protect her if we cannot be seen near her?”

Krshia didn’t turn as she strode away. She spoke briskly over her shoulder as she went to talk with other Gnolls.

“How else? We give her the means to protect herself.”



——



Toren was being chastised. Or rather, Toren was being yelled at. It was pretty much the same thing, but volume was the key difference here.

Erin walked through the grass back towards her inn, snapping at the skeleton as it meekly followed her, fish in hand.

“Why did you come all the way out here? Do you know what would have happened if the guard had seen you? He would have smashed you to bits, and I would have probably gotten in trouble. Somehow.”

Toren the skeleton didn’t say anything. It couldn’t, but it wouldn’t even if it could. It felt bad, but also good, which was a confusing feeling. Bad because Erin was mad at it, but good because it had a name.

Toren. No last name. Although why the skeleton would want two names was beyond it. But Erin had told it that was its name. Toren. It meant rook in another language, but what a rook was Toren had no idea. It was just a piece of carved stone on the board Erin liked to stare at so much.

Erin stormed through the grass, Toren meekly following in her wake. Her anger at the skeleton was rapidly dissipating, mainly because it was just taking all of her abuse. But her temper flared every time she looked back and saw the skeleton carrying the massive, and very dead, flat fish.

“And what were you thinking? Were you even thinking? Can you even think? Why would you think grabbing one of those stupid fish was a good idea?”

Toren bowed its head meekly and made no reply. The dead fish he carried in both his arms flopped around as he followed her.

Really, the skeleton hadn’t intended to kill the fish. It had leapt out at him while he’d been filling the buckets with water. But by dragging it away from its watery home, Toren had learned an important lesson: fish couldn’t breathe without water.

It hadn’t been sure if the flat fish were truly dangerous, but the skeleton was aware of their crushing strength and lethally sharp teeth. Moreover the skeleton now known as Toren had felt there was something valuable to be gained. It was—yes, it was Level 2 already from battling the adventurers. Perhaps it could gain another level by killing fish?

After all, a level wasn’t much, especially at lower-levels. But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in its overall coordination, strength, endurance, and overall fighting ability. The connection was simple in its mind. Levels were strength. So too was the [Basic Weapon Proficiency: Swords] Skill it had acquired.

It had orders. Do something productive. That could mean kill fish. So the skeleton had stuck its arm into the water and moved it around enticingly. Killing things was easy. Not like cleaning.

Thus, it had killed several of the large fish and taken them back to the inn. And it had brought one for Erin as something ‘useful’. Clearly, it had failed.

“Look, it’s not that I don’t like fish. I like fish. Dead fish that have a bit of lemon juice squeezed over the top after they’ve been roasted nicely. And maybe a bit of salt and pepper. I like those kinds of fish. But this fish is bad news. I tried cutting its scales off once and nearly sliced my hand off.”

That sounded like a problem, but Toren wasn’t sure what it was expected to do about it.

Erin kicked the door to her inn open, stopped as her nose registered the fishy smell, and turned to glare at Toren. The skeleton flinched back from her. Erin stormed into the kitchen, and her exclamation nearly rattled the floorboards.

“What is this?”

Fish were easy to catch, especially since Toren didn’t mind if they latched onto its arm. But they were hard to get off, so Toren had to hack at them with its sword. Thus, the fish in Erin’s kitchen weren’t so much dead as…

Disassembled.

The fish Toren was holding was the only one that was even close to intact. The other…bits Toren had carefully collected, washed to remove dirt and blood, and then deposited in a neat heaping pile on one of the cutting boards in the kitchen.

The fish guts dripped onto the floor. Toren automatically put down its fish on the counter and went to clean up the puddle of bloody water.

“Stop that.”

The skeleton paused with the rag in its hand as Erin rubbed at her face and tried not to scream. It could sense Erin was angry, but it clearly had no idea why. Erin sighed and pointed at the dead fish.

“You did this.”

The skeleton nodded.

“I think I get it. You wanted to be helpful. This is food. Which is…helpful, right?”

Another nod. Erin sighed.

“But look—I can’t eat this. No one can. Not even the G—well, maybe the Goblins. But we don’t eat food like…”

She waved at the mess of fish. Toren appeared confused.

“It’s the scales. See these?”

Erin pointed to the sharp, glittering scales lying all over the counter.

“They’re not tasty. And these ones are sharp. If we want to eat the fish, you have to get rid of the scales. And I—I can’t do it. Seriously. Like I said, last time…”

Erin broke off. The skeleton—she kept forgetting she’d named him Toren—was nodding. It dropped the rag, walked over, and grabbed a knife. Then it grabbed the fish it had taken and raised the knife.

It had no cooking skills and probably no idea what cooking even was. It hacked energetically and completely ineffectually at the fish with the knife. Scales and guts went flying everywhere. Erin covered her face and yelped as the skeleton cut, pried, and generally ripped the scales and much of the flesh right off the fish.

“Stop, stop!”

Toren paused and looked over at her. Erin pointed.

“Outside. Do that outside, on a table or something. And after that, clean up—no, nevermind. I’ll clean up this mess, you start getting rid of those scales, okay?”

The skeleton nodded. It carefully stuck the kitchen knife between its ribs to hold it in place, lifted the huge fish with both hands, and walked out of the kitchen with it. Erin stared until she heard the screech of wood on wood as the skeleton began dragging a table towards the door.

“I—don’t even know. I just don’t know.”

She stared down at the mess of scales and blood on the kitchen floor, then at the pile of eviscerated fish parts. It was a mess.

But—was it because they were disassembled? Somehow, Erin could tell what she could do with the fish guts now that they were in manageable pieces. Without the scales, she could fry them, use them in soups, bake them after breading them…

“I guess [Basic Cooking] doesn’t include scale removal. Or—scale removal on killer fish.”

That reminded Erin. She walked back to the entrance of the kitchen and called outside.

“Get rid of the teeth, bones, and fins too!”

She heard no response, but she was beginning to not expect one. With a sigh, Erin walked back into her kitchen and stared at the mess.

It really wasn’t that hard to clean up. And the skeleton had found a new food source. Or rather, it had transformed an old food source into an actual source of food. For her. It had done it for her.

That was nice. And Erin had finally thought of a name for it thanks to all the online chess games and conversations she’d had with foreign players. The Dutch had some pretty cool names.

It was all fine. Even her conversation with Krshia—

“Wasn’t that weird?”

Erin murmured to herself as she began separating the obviously unusable parts of the fish on the cutting board. The guts squelched horribly, but her mind was elsewhere.

Home. She really had tried not to think of it. But now that she had, it called to her. And it was still so far away. A mage? An archmage? Where the hell was she going to find one of those? But it was also something to focus on. A goal.

And that was good. It was all good. Except that now Erin was back in the inn, she’d remembered something. Or someones. Rags and Pisces were gone. Well, obviously they’d both left once they realized she wasn’t getting back in time for dinner. And that was good too. Erin didn’t think she could face them right now.

The fish guts were all separated, and Erin had the teeth, bones, and miscellaneous bits ready for Toren to take out and dispose of. Far away. She’d have to tell him that. He could toss them back in the stream.

She stared down at the mostly descaled bits of fish. The blood and guts stared up at her. She could cook them, though. She could turn them into something useful. It was a valuable Skill, and one she’d gotten without even having to practice. It was practically like magic.

Erin’s fist hit the pile of fish guts.

“Damnit.”

She hit the fish again. Bits of blood splattered her face, but Erin punched harder.

“Dammit. Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit.”

She punched the flayed fish, ignoring the squishing and the splatters of blood. She kicked the counter, hit the fish until her hands were raw and tingling, and then stopped.

“Fuck. Stupid, stupid—”

There were no right words. And all the ones she knew sounded so hollow and pitiful. Erin put her hands over her face and took them away instantly. Bits of fish clung to her skin. She looked around.

The counter and floor were even more of a mess than they’d been before. So were Erin’s clothes and her hair. She reeked of the smell of dead fish now. It would take a long time to clean up, even with Toren’s help

If she were a mage, she’d be able to clean it all up with a spell or a wave of her wand. If she were a mage, she’d be able to cook everything and relax without having to worry about a thing. If she were a mage, she might even learn how to bring herself back home.

If she could use magic…

But she couldn’t.

A few tears ran down Erin’s face. She would have wiped at her eyes, but her hands were dirty. She was dirty. And she had no magic to make it all go away. She couldn’t even dream of magic. Because she had none. And knowing that made it all so much worse.

Her tears fell onto the cutting board and mixed with the blood and death below her. Erin didn’t care. She let her tears fall and heard the sound of an owl’s wings flapping and heard the high pitched tones of a celeste, and far off in the distance, horns and violins.

For a moment, she wore robes and held a wand that sparked and glowed. In that instant, she could fly, albeit with a broom, and there was nothing that she couldn’t solve with a few latin words and a spell. For a moment.

But the magic was gone. And only Erin was left, covered in dead fish and lost.

Alone, and dreaming of home.

“…Damn it.”





1.47 R


After two hours of talking, the shouting began—and stopped almost as fast. Tempers had risen—and no sooner did a chair scrape back than they all caught each other and took a second to breathe.

The six people sat around a table and studied each other carefully. They were all warriors, and all but one of them was Human. And while some of them were friends with each other, they weren’t here to socialize. This was business, and right now, they were all arguing about one thing.

The first to break the silence was the Minotaur. Calruz, captain of the Horns of Hammerad, wasn’t one for waiting at the best of times, and his patience was already stretched thin. He hit the large table in the Adventurer’s Guild lightly—at least in the sense that his fist didn’t crack the wood. Two of the other adventurer captains jumped from the impact as everyone stared at him.

“Have you no spines? Here is the opportunity of a lifetime, and you all hesitate to step forwards! Grab your axes, and let’s enter these ruins already!”

The woman sitting next to him shook her head. She was a fair-skinned woman with blonde hair and polished silver armor, completely contrasting against Calruz’s bare chest and impatient nature. But he and she were in agreement.

“Most of us don’t use axes, Calruz. And while you have a point, recklessness is the exact reason everyone else is hesitating. We need to move carefully, and I’m saying it can be done. But—together. No running over people’s chances to speak.”

The Minotaur glared sideways at the woman, but he was wise enough not to attack his only ally in the room. He subsided back into his chair, grumbling.

“If we don’t get in there first, some Gold-rank team is going to organize an expedition and grab everything before we do!”

One of the captains sitting across the table shook his head. He was an archer, at least from the large longbow resting against the table next to him. He was tired—not only from organizing this meeting, but from riding all the way here from Liscor to meet everyone. Without Skills to aid his travel, it had been a day-long ride with little breaks. Even so—he was cautious and moderated his arguments. Because he had seen what Calruz was speaking so eagerly about with his own eyes.

“That’s what Charlez said. He took his entire group in right off, and they came back as zombies. Not a scratch on their weapons, but their armor was nearly ripped off. We all know what that means.”

“I don’t. Stop talking in riddles and spell it out for me.”

One of the adventurer captains leaned forwards. He was a burly man with an axe nearly as large as Calruz’s strapped to his back. He glowered at the archer-captain.

This time, it was the man in robes sitting next to him that answered the captain. Captain Menes was a spellcaster, a decent one, but Silver-rank. Not Wistram-trained but bookish, like most [Mages].

“What it means, Gregor, is that whatever Charlez and his group ran into, they didn’t even get a chance to fight back before it ripped them to pieces. And then something—it might have been another monster or the same one—reanimated them and sent them back out. That’s a serious threat.”

“And above our ability.”

That came from a scarred man who only wore a longsword at his side. Captain Rois. He wasn’t armored like the other adventurer captains, but then, he clearly didn’t feel the need while they were sitting in an Adventurer’s Guild talking. He folded his arms and shook his head at Calruz and the only female captain, Yvlon.

“We’ve all heard of how many Bronze-rank teams and individuals have been lost in those damned Ruins so far. True, most of them rushed in, but Charlez was different. He was experienced, and he went in prepared to retreat. Whatever got him was deadly. And you’re proposing we go in without knowing what the hell is down there?”

The woman in silver armor shook her head. She had the emblem of her noble house emblazoned on her armor, and so the others were slightly deferential—but only just. They were all adventurers, here.

“Silver and steel, Rois, haven’t you been listening this entire time? I’m not saying go in blind! The exact opposite! I’m proposing we join together and launch a six-team raid on those ruins. We stock up on supplies, pool our best warriors, and fortify along the way as we go as far as we can.”

She glanced at Cervial, the [Archer Captain], for confirmation that she was on-track with his proposal and got a nod.

“We’ll have a far better chance if we work together, and the Ruins are practically untouched beyond the first level. I hear Liscor doesn’t want to investigate themselves and is leaving everything up to the adventurers. If we want to get to whatever treasures are buried in there, now’s our chance.”

Calruz nodded emphatically, but the others didn’t appear convinced. Cervial leaned forwards and addressed the table at large.

“Why not let the other adventurers go in first and wait for at least one or two to come back for more insight? I know I organized us to talk—but I’m still not sold myself. This isn’t like you, Yvlon. I could see Calruz wanting to go in, but how’d he manage to talk you into it?”

Yvlon, the woman in silver armor, smiled at the other captain.

“Impatience and daring, Cervial. I was excited as the rest of you when I heard about the ruins. But you’re right. I am moving fast, but not because Calruz managed to talk me into it. I heard there’s a team of Gold-rank adventurers who’ll be here in a week or less.”

That caused a stir at the table. The other captains muttered, and not happily too.

“Well that changes things.”

“Does it? Not in my opinion. The Ruins are still too dangerous.”

“But letting a bunch of Golds take all the treasure? That’s different. Are they bound from the City of Adventurers?”

“Almost definitely. But that’s not all I’ve heard. And my news is more disturbing.”

This time, it was the Menes who spoke up. He glanced around the table and raised a finger significantly. The tip of it sparked with magic.

“There’s a Named-rank adventurer in the city right now. You might have heard of her. Gazi the Omniscient.”

All the captains fell silent. Gregor’s lips moved soundlessly with awe and trepidation. Gazi the—

Of course they knew her. That—that changed things.

Gold-rank was as high as most ranking systems allowed for in any continent. As a general rule of thumb, a Bronze-rank adventuring team wasn’t much better than a group of rookies, while a Silver-rank team was more than a match for a small city’s standing militia. The equipment and magic available to a group of adventurers like the Horns of Hammerad meant that they could take on challenges even a large garrison might not manage.

Beyond that, Gold-rank adventurers were experienced, highly-trained groups that could handle most monster threats with ease. At the top of that grouping, teams of adventurers were equivalent to small armies and could affect disputes between nations.

Some countries quibbled about the exact definitions of each rank and had different ways of grading the ranks—but in practice, they were all able to fit in these three categories to a certain degree of expectation. But once you surpassed a certain level of prowess, you got given a new title.

Named-rank Adventurer.

In practice, they were called that because their names were known throughout the part of the world where they travelled. They were living legends to adventurers with short careers like the Silver-rank captains in the room. There was no higher rank, no loftier expectation. One of them could do what teams of Gold-ranks could not.

They were famous, like Deniusth the Violinist, Saliss of Lights—and Gazi was famous enough to be known continents away.

Captain Rois broke the silence first. He checked his longsword and exhaled hard.

“Well, that’s different. Very different. If a Named adventurer is in the city, there’s probably only one real reason why she’s there: the ruins. But the real question is why hasn’t she gone in yet?”

Captain Menes lifted his hand.

“I’ll tell you why. It’s because she’s being cautious. And if a Named adventurer doesn’t want to go in just yet—”

Cervial hesitated.

“She might not have any idea what’s down there. It could be fine. They’re not all-knowing. I mean, despite her name.”

No one laughed at the joke. Gregor licked his lips nervously. Gazi had spooked him.

“Or there could be monsters that would make the High Passes look like a small bear cave by comparison! No! My group won’t take part.”

“You coward, Gregor. Where’s your sense of pride as a warrior?”

Calruz raised his voice and aimed it at the captain with the axe. The man flushed red and pushed his chair back angrily, but Menes put a hand on Gregor’s shoulder.

“None of us are cowards, and you’d do well to remember that before tossing around insults, Calruz. But this changes things.”

“Only if you’re taking the worst view of it.”

This came from Cervial. He was thinking, stroking the handle of his bow thoughtfully as he spoke.

“I might, might be willing to give this a try. I’ve wasted enough time in Liscor to see that the other teams aren’t organized. Charlez was brave—but he went in alone, with only his team for backup. The Horns of Hammerad and the Silver Spears together represent a large fighting force. If I throw in my team, we’d have a party big enough to challenge even the deeper parts of the Ruins of Albez.”

“Don’t be stupid, Cervial. You can’t expect these ruins to be the same.”

Cervial shook his head at Menes—the [Mage] was appalled, but the other captains were listening hard.

“I’m not suggesting they are. But between our three teams, we’re at least equal to one or two Gold-rank teams, and if the rest of you joined in it might work. Might.”

Calruz leaned forwards and addressed Cervial.

“If you’re with us, I’ll want your full commitment, not uncertain promises. My team has heard my decision, and they are with us. If you lack their spirit, we do not need you.”

Yvlon winced, and Menes shook his head, pushing himself back from the table. Calruz was no negotiator. But Cervial didn’t seem to have taken much offense. He studied Calruz and then asked a question.

“What does Ceria Springwalker think about the Ruins?”

That caused another pause in the room. All eyes turned to Calruz. The Minotaur’s nostrils flared, and he snorted angrily.

“Ceria does not lead the Horns of Hammerad. I do.”

Captain Rois had paused, his chair scraping on the floorboards. He sat down thoughtfully, and Menes joined him. Rois looked at Calruz.

“Yes, but she’s got more experience adventuring, and she’s older than any two of us in this room put together. If she thinks it’s worth the risk, I’ll throw in with this plan.”

Gregor the axe-captain stared incredulously from Calruz to Cervial. He stood up.

“You’re all crazy, and whatever’s down there is going to eat you alive. I’m out, and so is my party.”

Yvlon shook her head, distraught. She glanced at the mage captain hopefully.

“Menes? You with us? Listen. This is the kind of thing that puts a team on the map. My brother’s team, the Silver Swords? They didn’t become Gold-ranks turning down chances like this.”

Everyone glanced up, because Yvlon had invoked a famous name. The Silver Swords. Gold-ranks. Menes hesitated brushing at his robes and then shook his head reluctantly.

“I’m sorry, but Gregor’s right. It’s too risky, and my group needs more space to cast our spells. If we knew for certain what was below, I’d join you. Cervial, you should think this through as well.”

The archer-captain paused and then shrugged.

“I understand, but I’ll trust our resident half-Elf on this one. If she thinks it’s worth the risk, I’ll take my team in, cramped corridors or not. How often do you think we’ll get a chance like this?”

His words went unanswered. Gregor and Menes left the room, shaking their heads and talking to each other quietly. After a moment, the scarred captain stood up and followed after them, leaving the three captains behind.

“Well, that could have gone better.”

Yvlon leaned over the table despondently as Calruz glared at the closed door.

“We don’t need cowards. If they lack the courage to risk their lives, we were better off without them to begin with. Such weakness would only drag us down.”

“Yes, but now we have to fill their holes with Bronze-rank teams, and that is weakness. I guess it’ll come down to how many freelancers are hanging around the ruins. We’ll need more mages and more front-line fighters. At least we’ve got one team who can detect and disarm traps.”

Cervial raised one hand warningly.

“If—”

“Yes, if Ceria thinks it’s worthwhile. But I believe these Ruins might even be bigger than Albez, don’t you?”

“Then why didn’t Ceria join us and lend her support while we were all arguing? If she had—”

Calruz snorted.

“Bah. She wanted to stay in Celum. Now she’s pacing around the Runner’s Guild.”

“Why?”

“She was waiting for a Runner to come back. She made a mistake and gave her mana potions instead of healing potions right before she ran into the High Passes.”

The two other captains blanched. Cervial shook his head sadly, but Calruz was unaffected.

“I told her it would not matter. This Runner is no coward like the others. Mistake or not, she will survive the journey. And meanwhile, we have an expedition to prepare.”

“You seem awfully confident about that, Calruz. The High Passes are no joke. If it were there we were going to explore, I wouldn’t feel comfortable even with all three of our teams working together.”

“She will survive. She is a Human worthy of my admiration and respect. She will survive.”

Yvlon raised her eyebrows at Cervial. It was rare that anyone heard Calruz talking about any Human positively, let alone like this.

“This wouldn’t happen to be that barefoot Runner I’ve heard so much about, would it? Was that the one who bailed your group out when you were fighting that Lich?”

“The very same. Her name is Ryoka Griffin, and she is fearless.”

Cervial’s fingers snapped together lightly. The other two captains looked at him in surprise.

“I wondered where I’d seen her face. That girl—I believe I saw her last night. She ran straight into the city just before dawn. She’s here now, in fact. I saw her entering the guild.”

Calruz’s eyes widened. His mouth fell slightly open. The Minotaur’s long, tufted ears went very still. He blinked at Cervial and then turned his eyes upwards to the ceiling.

“Ryoka Griffin is here?”



——



It was odd. Ryoka was sure she hadn’t burned that many calories with her little light trick, but before she knew it, she’d downed a hunk of cheese, half a loaf of bread, and quite a bit of meat and an entire stick of butter.

Not separately, of course; these came in the form of sandwiches, but it was still disgusting to think that she’d somehow eaten that much food in one sitting.

Ceria downplayed Ryoka’s disgust. She explained being ravenous was normal for someone casting magic for the first time and mages in general.

“It’s why you don’t see many fat mages—well, at least among mages who actually use their spells in combat. You should meet one of the [Mages] in Wistram, Telim…anyways. After a really exhausting battle, I’ve eaten an entire ham by myself.”

Ryoka blinked at Ceria as the mage blushed. It didn’t even seem possible a ham would fit inside the half-Elf’s smaller body.

“Aren’t your…people vegetarian?”

Instantly, Ceria’s face turned wary.

“Not all of us. I don’t know what you’ve heard, but we eat all the food Humans eat.”

“Oh, of course. Sorry.”

Mentally, Ryoka kicked herself. She was really tired to be making mistakes like that. But at least she hadn’t started talking about Tolkien elves or any of the other stereotypes. Come to that, she didn’t know much about half-Elves either. She wasn’t a big fantasy fan.

Changing the subject, Ceria fiddled with her wand and pointed to Ryoka.

“You should probably get your first level in the [Mage] class as soon as you take a nap. Hopefully, it’ll come with a Skill or a spell, but don’t worry if it doesn’t. After that, you can start thinking about what field of magic you want to specialize in.”

“Oh. Levels.”

Another problem. Ryoka sighed.

“Is—is leveling necessary to learn magic? Couldn’t I learn magic without gaining a…a class?”

Ceria looked surprised and had to think about that question for a moment.

“Of course you don’t need levels to learn spells. I think? What a question. But it makes everything so much faster. For instance—when I reached Level 18 in my [Elementalist] class, I learned the spell [Fireball]. It would have taken me a month of study and the right scrolls to even begin casting that spell otherwise.”

She eyed Ryoka somewhat suspiciously.

“Why? You aren’t one of those types who believes in the Book of Levels, do you?”

“The what?”

Ceria waved her hands, grimacing.

“Oh, this famous book that was popular when my grandmother was a child. I thought it died out, but I run into people who swear by it now and then. It has all kinds of notions about how levelling works. Some people—they claim that we all have a set amount of levels in us. If we gain too many levels in a bunch of different classes, we’ll eventually run out. The Book of Levels. Never heard of it?”

Great, religion without the gods. Ryoka snorted derisively.

“No. And I don’t believe in that either. I just wanted to know if I could study by myself or if I had to—to wait until I leveled to learn more spells.”

“Oh. Well, that’s a common misconception. Mages level from casting spells, but we gain a lot of experience from studying magic. You can’t just go around throwing fireballs and expect to level up quickly.”

And there was another thing. As Ryoka kept talking with Ceria, lightly speculating about what magic she might like to learn, her mind was racing.

Level limits? That sounded like a game to her. But people were treating it like some kind of superstition. How much did they really know about levels anyways?

In Ryoka’s sleep-deprived state, parts of her mind were firing off with questions, but she deliberately did not ask Ceria any of them. She liked and even trusted the half-Elf, but some things were better left unasked. At least, for the moment.

“You look beat. I’d offer you my bed, but all the other adventurers are waking up. They’ll be thumping around soon enough.”

Ryoka was pretty sure she could sleep underneath a railroad at the moment, but she still declined Ceria’s offer. Mostly because a railroad track might have less of a mess under it. Besides…she didn’t want to waste the moment.

“I’d like to talk some more about magic and look around the Adventurer’s Guild if that’s okay.”

“Of course. I’m free until Calruz finishes meeting with the other Silver-rank leaders. And besides, it’s breakfast and everyone should be downstairs. We can meet them and eat at the same time.”

Ceria didn’t notice the brief look of distaste that flicked across Ryoka’s face. The other girl didn’t want to go down and socialize, but she had no choice. Reluctantly, she followed Ceria down the stairs.



——



Damn. I hate talking to people. No—that’s not exactly right. I hate talking to people in groups. Individuals are fine. Ceria’s fine, Garia’s fine…Sostrom is fine because he fixed my phone…

…That’s about it. I’d be absolutely happy to talk to any one of them, but everyone else can go to hell rather than bother me. But instead, I get to follow Ceria down and socialize.

I hate that. But I do owe Ceria, not least because she’s helped me learn magic. Me. Learn magic*.



*If I weren’t so tired, I think I’d be running around waving my arms and screaming in a high-pitched voice**.



**Probably not. But I’m really, really excited. It’s magic! Magic! I wonder what spells I can learn and—damnit, here come people.



I follow Ceria down into the main section of the Adventurer’s Guild. The ground floor has an open lobby for people to either submit requests for assistance to the guild or adventurers to turn in bounties and collect rewards like the Runner’s Guild, but it also has more sections designed to cater to the adventuring lifestyle.

A small shop staffed by employees of the city’s guild is the last stop in the small corridor before we reached what I can only describe as a cafeteria. It’s a mess hall, but the way it’s set up immediately screams school cafeteria to me. And this is not a pleasant association.

The cafeteria is essentially one far wall with a noisy kitchen partially exposed to the room and a long counter where adventurers can pay for food without having to make their way to an inn. The Adventurer’s Guild in Esthelm is even big enough to have quite a few rooms for rent like the one Ceria was staying in. I suppose it all makes sense—you can earn even more money feeding the people who kill monsters for you.

As soon as Ceria and I step into the room, people turn and look. I guess it’s an adventurer thing—and a Runner thing, come to think of it—not to want to be caught off-guard.

But the truth of it is that Ceria and I would probably attract attention anywhere we go. Ceria is Ceria—half immortal and beautiful. And I’m…me. I’ve got bare feet, and I’m taller than a lot of the guys here. Plus, I look Asian, and this is a very Anglo-Saxon type of place*.



*Seriously. What’s up with that? Is it just a rule that white people are always the colonists who screw over the indigenous groups? I know Humans aren’t native to this continent, but does that also mean white—excuse me—caucasian** groups are the dominant ethnic group in this world? Or…is it mirroring our world somehow? Hm.



**Technically speaking, caucasian is also not politically correct since it implies someone who’s descended from the Caucasus region, which isn’t necessarily true. Plus, the word literally means white people, just without saying the word white overtly. The correct term here would be European-American, except that it doesn’t apply to people here since there is no America or Europe, which means that white people is the best damn word there is and stop thinking about this—



“Ryoka Griffin!”

I’m cut off from my incoherent musings when I hear someone talking to me. It’s a familiar voice, but that doesn’t mean I’m too happy to hear it. Still, I’ve got to play nice. And I do owe these people, even if it seems like half of them are a bit too interested in me as a member of the opposite sex.

So I smile, turn, and clasp hands with Gerial, Sostrom, and the other Horns of Hammerad as they get up from their seats. There are several people I don’t recognize, and they nod to me as Ceria and Gerial introduce them.

‘Hey, Ryoka, this is blah blah or someone someone who’s here to hit things or shoot people with arrows.’ I really don’t care, especially since I’m still hungry, tired, and grumpy at having to meet people. But I do owe the Horns, so I shake hands and smile and pretend I like them, which is not my strong suit.

…What’s wrong with me? Remember all that gratitude I was feeling—what, a week ago? I remember it. I remember it—but the feeling’s gone.

What’s left is this desire to kick something. It’s like I’m surrounded by Persuas, but these people have done nothing to harm me. Except Ceria, but the mana-potions thing was an accident, and she just taught me magic.

But suddenly I just—can’t. I can’t do the social thing. You know how it’s said introverts lose energy by being around people and extroverts gain it? I must be on zero battery because I feel like every second I spend around these people smiling at me I’m breathing bile.

I have to get out of here—but because I like these fucking assholes, I’m staying put. I inhale, exhale—I hate them. I hate Garia, who punched out that asshole adventurer I should have kicked in the skull—I hate all of this.

I just want to run. Run until I’m tired and away and…I try to shake off this feeling. It’s fine.

I feel like this now and then. My parents can bring it out in about five seconds.

Everyone has days like this, right?

I’m just tired. It was a mistake to say I wanted to check out the Adventurer’s Guild to Ceria. What I really should have said is that I want to look around really quickly, talk with her for three more hours, and then go to sleep for the rest of the day before doing anything else.

Instead, I’m stuck. And guess what? I forgot that people still hadn’t heard about me going through the High Passes, which means suddenly a bunch of annoying people want me to tell them exactly what happened.

“I ran into a bunch of Goblins, some wolves, some goats, and then some gargoyles. I just kept running, and then I got to my destination.”

Gerial makes a polite sound of disbelief while Ceria eyes me as she brings us some more food. Cafeteria food for adventurers. Lovely.

To be fair, it’s sausage, barley bread, and some vegetable soup steaming in a bowl. And some weak, minty drink people around here love. And that’s great cooking by medieval standards. A far higher standard of living than what poor people would have eaten all the time*.



*Barley. Barley bread, barley pizza, barley pancakes, barley soup…yeah. They didn’t have many options back then.



I eat it while they pester me with questions. The Horns of Hammerad have their own table, but it seems like a bunch of adventurers just happen to be standing around listening too.

“There’s got to be more than that. What kind of wolves were they? Normal kinds or were they actual monsters?”

I glance up at Gerial. He’s still smiling and trying to be Mr. Nice Guy. Okay, maybe he genuinely is nice, but I still don’t like him as easily as I do Ceria. Probably because he’s a guy and even he can’t resist staring at my breasts once or twice*.



*My eyes are up here. Not that I really want people to stare into my eyes. Over my shoulder is nice, but I’m used to them looking at my feet, too. And at least Gerial doesn’t stare much and stops when he realizes he is. That’s the sign of a semi-decent guy, as opposed to the other guy sitting next to him who can’t stop looking at them.



Okay, I realize what the problem is. I uncross my arms and stop leaning back in my chair. If you’ve got it, don’t flaunt it unless you want people to think about touching it. Or something.

“I don’t know. They were a lot bigger than normal wolves. And they had red fur.”

And bodies like iron. Gerial looks around. One of the mages standing next to Sostrom nods.

“Carn Wolves.”

“Got to be.”

Several of the nearby adventurers whistle, and Ceria looks pained. Oh yeah, she was really guilty about giving me those mana potions by accident. I told her it all worked out, but—

“They were pretty bad. They ate up the Goblins that ambushed me and then got torn to shreds by the Gargoyles and goats.”

The adventurers murmur again and look at each other. Gerial shakes his head and leans forwards, this time meeting my eyes.

“See, Gargoyles I understand. They’re terrifying monsters when you find one holed up in a cave or terrorizing a village. But goats? What do you mean, ‘goats’?”

“Probably the flesh-eating goats, the kind with sharp teeth that can tear even Carn Wolves apart. Eater Goats, they’re called.”

This comes from a guy standing among the other adventurers. He’s got a scar over one side of his face, and he’s wearing a longsword at his belt. Which means he’s pretty sparsely equipped compared to the rest of the adventurers, who’re walking around in chainmail or wearing leather armor even while they eat.

He nods at me as Gerial and the other Horns turn in their seats.

“Rois, Silver-rank adventurer. You must be the famous barefoot Runner. Were those the kind of goats you saw?”

I eye him. Despite the crowd now forming around our table, this guy is getting a bit of space and he’s not being shoved. Clearly, he’s important.

“Yeah. I guess. They had sharp teeth. And they scream.”

The scarred guy nods grimly.

“That’s them alright. Those goats hunt in packs and can climb anything. They’re village killing monsters. Whenever they leave the High Passes, they eat everything edible in their wake for miles around. If you outran them, Miss Runner, consider yourself lucky.”

All of the adventurers seem impressed at this. The scarred man seems to have fought the damned goats more than once, and Gerial and the others start asking him questions about them.

I lean over to Ceria.

“Who’s he?”

She pauses, swallows, and glances at the scarred guy who’s busy talking about how to behead the goats properly.

“He’s Rois, captain of the Swordlock Dogs. A Silver-rank team, more known up north. He was supposed to be talking to Calruz and the others, but—”

“Okay, okay. You got through the monsters, but what was waiting for you at the other end?”

Ceria breaks off as one of the newer members of the Horns of Hammerad interrupts our conversation. Rude asshole. He’s also the youngest guy with scruffy, brownish hair. He stares at me and demands to know who I met.

“Who was he? Some rich hermit? A mage living in retirement? A shadowy figure?”

Like hell I’m going to tell him or anyone for that matter. The mystery, possibly-elf archmage Teriarch might annoy me, but he’s my mystery.

“No one special.”

While I may not like people, I am good at keeping a straight face while I tell lies*. And at least here I can play the Runner’s confidentiality card, so I don’t have to answer any more questions about him at least.



*Lies like ‘oh, I’m so sorry your stupid hamster died’, or ‘I just cannot believe your stupid, inbred boyfriend dumped you! How terrible!’ And so on.



“But Gargoyles? I’ve never seen one up close. What were they like?”

“Big. Stone. They spit rocks and try to eat you.”

What the hell do they want from me, a hand-drawn portrait with anatomical references? …Hell, I’d buy a monster bestiary if they had one around here. But all these adventurers want to know is how to kill one, and I’m definitely not the person to ask for that.

“I barely got out alive. It was sheer luck that I got away.”

“I happen to disagree with that. Anyone who can outrun a horde of Gargoyles is clearly not merely lucky.”

This time, the clear voice comes from behind the other adventurers. People turn and stand aside as they do as three adventurers walk forwards. That probably also has to do with one of them being Calruz. No one gets in his way.

Calruz, a guy holding a huge longbow as tall as he is, and a woman in silvery armor walk to the table I’m sitting at. Great. More people, and these ones also look like captains. The woman with long flowing blonde hair smiles down at me and offers a gauntleted hand.

“Yvlon Byres, Silver-rank adventurer. I’m Captain of the Silver Spears, and I wanted to make your acquaintance.”

My god does she look like something out of a movie. I stare up at her with crumbs on my face and then take her hand. One firm handshake later and somehow she and the other captains are sitting at the table.

Great. As if my trials weren’t enough. Now I’ve got Calruz sitting next to me, and a giant, hairy Minotaur is not my preferred seatmate. And now there are four Silver-rank adventuring captains sitting around me, nicely blocking me off from Ceria while a bunch of people stare at me like I’m some kind of amazingly interesting piece of crap*.



*Or something else. Honestly, I could be a golden poodle for all I care. I hate being stared at when I’m not running, and even then it’s not exactly a blast. But at least then I can outrun the eyes.



“Getting through the High Passes alive is something that hasn’t been done in years. Not that many Runners have tried it, but it takes a special kind of someone to do that.”

Calruz snorted, and the other adventurers nodded as Yvlon, the fabulously armored and beautiful captain, continues lavishing praise on me. It’s actually getting to be more annoying than the questions.

“It was a request. I got it done—half-done. I just need to finish my delivery, and it’ll be over.”

“Really?”

This time, everyone is interested. One of the adventurers tries to look casual.

“Where to? Whom to?”

“Confidential.”

Their faces fall. But I don’t think any of them were really expecting to get the truth out of me anyways. But at the mention of the delivery, the ring and letter I’ve been given burn in my mind. I left them in the pack in Ceria’s room. Damn. I should have been more careful with them. I’ve got to deliver—

I blink, unfocused for a second. The spell. For a moment, I was about to get up and start running. That stupid mage—

“Ryoka?”

I look up. Everyone’s staring at me. I must have not been paying attention. I try not to turn red, fail, and look at Yvlon.

“Sorry, what?”

This is why I hate talking to people. But she smiles as if nothing happened and asks me again.

“I was just wondering if you had any levels in a fighting class or whether you only had levels as a Runner. Did you enter into any other classes before this?”

Now that is a loaded question that I’m not prepared to answer. I scramble—give up.

“Why do you want to know?”

Yeah, that’s right. I’m about as blunt as a hammer to the face. But Yvlon only smiles.

“Simple curiosity. I’d like to see how well you’d do in a fight. I’m told you’re quite the pugilist despite being a Runner.”

Pugilist? Who the hell uses that term? Oh, right. ‘Boxer’ probably hasn’t been invented yet.

Gerial looks blank. He and the other adventurers at the table exchange a glance.

“What’s a ‘pugilist’?”

Ceria sighed and supplied the answer.

“Boxer.”

All the adventurers nod in sudden understanding. Okay, maybe boxing does exist in this world and Yvlon’s just a prat. Or someone who appreciates literature. I could respect that*.



*But I won’t. I’m too tired. And pugilist is a stupid word, anyways.



“Who’d you hear that from?”

Word can’t have spread about me laying the beat down on that stupid adventurer in Celum. No way. I literally outran rumor. So how does this woman know who I am and that I can fight?

“I heard it from my aunt twice-removed. She lets me know about interesting people, and she told me it would be worth seeking you out.”

All the adventurers seem to understand this and look at me curiously. But I’m still out of the loop.

“Who’s the aunt? Do I know her?”

Ceria coughed gently, as if I’m making a stupid mistake.

“Yvlon Byres is leader of the Silver Spears, but she’s also part of a noble family, Ryoka. House Byres. Up north. They deal in…silver I think?”

I look blank. Ceria sighs.

“The Byres family? Aristocracy?”

“Minor aristocracy.”

Yvlon corrects Ceria with a smile.

“We’re practically unheard of. My sister’s a [Merchant], and my brother’s a [Knight]. We have relatives, but it’s a small family. We trade in silver and have several large mines in the area. And we’re distantly related to the Reinharts.”

She says that as if it means something. The who…?

Oh. Ah, shit. Magnolia’s last name is Reinhart, isn’t it? That means—

That fucking woman. Even when I think I’ve outrun her she manages to find someone to bother me.

For a moment, my scowl flashes across my face, and Gerial closes his mouth and sits back. Yvlon eyes me, the smile still fixed on her face.

“I’m sorry if my aunt has bothered you, Ryoka, but she’s quite insistent. And she’s told all of my family—everyone, really, to keep an eye out for you.”

Gerial blinks at Yvlon. Not the quickest on the uptake, and nor are the other adventurers. But the archer-guy—Cervial I think his name was—and Ceria both stare intently at Yvlon. And so does Calruz. I guess he’s pretty quick too.

But if Ceria and Cervial say nothing, Calruz doesn’t have their subtlety. Or any, for that matter. He rests his arm on the table and leans forwards—which is only a little bit since he’s so massive already—to stare down at Yvlon.

“Her business is her own. If Magnolia Reinhart seeks Ryoka Griffin, she should either respect her privacy or seek her outright.”

Yvlon makes a pretty face and shrugs ruefully at Calruz.

“Sorry, Calruz, but no one in my family defies Lady Magnolia. And I wasn’t intending on doing anything to Ryoka. I just wanted to know if she really was good at fighting barehanded.”

“And I suppose you are?”

Again, maybe she’s well known, but everyone gives me a look like I’m a massive idiot. Yvlon smiles.

“I’ve got a bit of a reputation. The Silver Spears are known for fighting with any weapon that comes to hand and barehanded if need be.”

Sostrom nudges me on my right side and mutters loud enough for me to hear.

“She once defeated five bandits with only her bare hands after losing her sword.”

Wow. Wooooow. And am I supposed to be impressed by that? Beating five guys down with your bare hands isn’t exactly amazing in my book. And it’s less amazing because Yvlon Byres is wearing full-plate armor made out of expensive metal. If she was fighting ‘barehanded’ with those metal gauntlets on against five guys with bad weapons, I’d put money on her too.

Perhaps my lack of any amazement showed*, because Yvlon raised one perfect eyebrow, and the other adventurers looked—discontented. Why? Because I’m not impressed by a chump in armor smacking around a few idiots?



*It totally did. I was not impressed.



“I heard that you managed to defeat a low-level [Assassin] with your bare hands and fought a Carn Wolf without any weapons as well.”

This time, everyone goes silent. Okay, that’s it. Magnolia has been upgraded from a person I really don’t want to talk to into someone I can’t ignore. The assassin is one thing since I bet she hired him, but—how did she know about the wolf?

“I’d love to see your abilities myself. I know you’re tired, but if you have time for a quick match, I could give you a handicap.”

There’s no malice in Yvlon’s tone. In fact, she’s been pretty above-board with me about telling me she knows Magnolia and all. And it’s probably a fair offer, considering adventurer levels and all that. Certainly none of the other adventurers—Gerial, Sostrom, etcetera are frowning. Only Calruz looks displeased.

But—a handicap. A handicap for me from this woman who looks like a supermodel who got sent back in time? Or one of those Hollywood female knights?

Right, that’s it. I’m tired, cranky, and I ran over sixty miles last night to get here after fighting a mysterious assassin, getting in a bar fight, and managing to cast magic for the first time in my life.

First things first. I’m going to kick Yvlon’s face in, challenge Calruz to a fight, and then go to sleep.

Exactly in that order.

The potion bottle at my waist sloshes gently as I grin with all my teeth at Ms. Perfect Knight-Adventurer.

“Why, I’d love to have a sparring match. Tell me, have you ever heard the word MMA?”

She looks confused.

“MMA?”





1.48 R


When Garia arrived in Esthelm just before midday, she saw the commotion outside the Adventurer’s Guild before she’d even dropped off her delivery.

Sugar. Several bags of it—enough for a huge rush order in one of the bakeries in town. The heavy, sticky delivery had messed up the inside of Garia’s pack. She’d have to spend quite some time cleaning it out with water and a ball of soap.

The thought was depressing to the girl, but she put that out of her mind the instant she saw Ryoka. As always, the other girl was at the center of some kind of attention. In this case, she was surrounded by a crowd of adventurers in the open courtyard used for training and sparring in the Adventurer’s Guild.

She wasn’t sparring or using a weapon. Yet. But Garia could see, as plain as her own level, that Ryoka was about to fight. The other girl had a—certain expression that crossed her face in times like these.

Externally, she did seem like normal Ryoka. That was to say, her impassive face, which gave nothing away, and her distant, reserved eyes that had fascinated Garia the first day she’d met the other girl.

But in times like these, though the mask would not break, Garia could see another Ryoka peering out from behind. And her eyes—yes, you had to look there. Ryoka’s eyes held a faint, fierce light.

Not a kind one. Certainly brave—wild enough for her to run into Albez and deliver healing potions for a team in need. But the same kind—

The same kind of madness that had sent her to the High Passes. Garia had wondered about it, and her conclusion was something Ryoka would hate to hear.

…But it reminded Garia, a bit, of how Persua looked at her. Only, where Persua focused on Garia’s weight, upon anyone she didn’t like who slighted her—Ryoka’s was for the entire world. And it was brightest when it was in the mirror. It was in her gaze now as she squared off against the woman in silver armor. A blazing contempt for her own safety.

It made Garia hesitate, but she was even kinder than she was curious. That instinct prompted her to gently push her way through the crowd of adventurers to stop Ryoka from picking a fight with someone dangerous.



——



Ryoka was stretching her legs out, touching her toes when she saw someone lift up a guy in leather armor and shift him out of the way. Garia, red-faced and blushing, apologized and edged into the open space and towards Ryoka.

Huh. But Ryoka had suggested Garia come to the city, hadn’t she? It was just…odd. Her conversation with Garia felt like it had happened a long time ago. But she’d been awake then and hadn’t slept since.

Tired. Which wasn’t good. Ryoka had to be at the top of her game for what was coming next.

Ryoka nodded as Garia cautiously walked closer. She would have smiled—or at least thought about smiling—but she didn’t feel like it. She needed to concentrate.

“Hey.”

“Um, hi, Ryoka. What’s up?”

“Nothing much. See that person? The one in the silver armor? She challenged me to a fight.”

Ryoka nodded across the courtyard to where Yvlon was talking to Ceria, Calruz, and several other members of the Horns of Hammerad. Garia eyed her once, gulped, and then bent down to whisper to Ryoka.

“Ryoka? Did you do something to make her—um, mad?”

Ryoka bared her teeth. It might have been a smile.

“I don’t think so. Not yet, anyways. She challenged me to a ‘friendly’ match. I accepted. Why?”

Garia’s lips moved. The City Runner turned her head, and her eyes focused on the other woman. Her voice was too-casual as she turned back to Ryoka.

“Oh. Nothing. It’s just—that’s Yvlon Byres, Captain of the Silver Spears. She’s famous around here.”

“So I’m told.”

“And she challenged you. To a fight?”

“Well, a sparring match. I was the one who wanted to turn it into a fight.”

“Why?”

Ryoka hesitated. She eyed Yvlon across the open space between them. The other young woman—she was closer to Ryoka’s age, possibly a year or two older—was smiling and addressing a worried-looking Ceria. She turned, met Ryoka’s eyes, and nodded politely.

The barefoot girl looked away. She began stretching her other leg and muttered to Garia.

“I—just want to push her face in a bit, don’t you? She’s a bit too beautiful and perfect.”

Garia waited, but Ryoka just stood back up and began touching her toes, breathing slowly and steadily.

“That’s it?”

“Yup.”

“Ryoka, that’s—I know Yvlon. Her group, the Silver Spears, helped chase off a group of bandits that was attacking me once. And I’ve heard of her. She’s a really good person! She’s nice, she gives to the poor, her team takes on requests to help people even if the reward isn’t high—”

“I get it. She’s a great person. A popular girl. Someone everyone likes.”

The expression on Ryoka’s face said that she didn’t share the same opinion. Her eyes were flinty as they flicked towards Yvlon.

“You don’t think she’s like that?”

“Maybe. Maybe not. She just—reminds me of people I don’t like. And she looks too nice for an adventurer. I don’t like nice people. They’re always hiding something. It’s always a mask, right? Like Fals.”

There was so much to unpack that Garia was left dumbfounded. She looked at Yvlon, then Ryoka.

“That doesn’t make any sense. Fals is—he has his faults, but he’s not a bad person. There’re good folk out there. Like—like the Horns.”

She waited for some of that reasonableness to drip into Ryoka’s ears, but the City Runner just shook her head.

“I guess. Maybe. Shame we won’t ever find out the truth. Alright, I’m ready.”

Ryoka finished stretching out her hamstrings and stood straight, sighing. Her conversation with Garia was—distracting. She didn’t really have a good explanation for Garia, not one she could articulate. It was just how she felt. More than anything, Ryoka had been happy to fight Yvlon.

The other adventurer noticed she was staring and smiled again. Ryoka scowled. That smile. That polite, little smile. It said quite clearly Yvlon knew Ryoka was spoiling for a fight—and that Yvlon would win either way. She wanted to wipe it off Yvlon’s face. Ryoka muttered to the side.

“She looks way too attractive, that’s all.”

Garia shook her head. She seemed to wrestle with herself and then burst out.

“You both look like—like princesses!”

Ryoka blinked at the other Runner. Garia stared back, embarrassed.

“You do. You both look—way better than I do. Or Persua. Or anyone, really. I don’t see why you want to fight her.”

“She wants to test me, too. She’s working for Magnolia.”

“She’s related to Lady Magnolia, Ryoka.”

“Hrm.”

“You know she once took on five men and won, right? She did it barehanded.”

“With armor though, right? Not exactly barehanded. You try punching out someone in plate armor. I bet those [Bandits] could have taken her on without the armor. I can—even if she’s got it on.”

Garia was close to tearing out her hair. She clutched at her head and regretted it as her sugar-encrusted palms mixed with her sweat.

“It was still five people, Ryoka! Most adventurers couldn’t do that with a weapon!”

Ryoka knew that was true. She knew it was…probably…impressive, but even in her own head, she didn’t want to give the thought too much credence. Garia was still talking. Ryoka debated tuning her out and reluctantly listened.

“I know she won’t hurt you—not if you don’t try to hurt her. But Silver-rank adventurers aren’t like that guy you fought in the tavern, Ryoka. If you make her get serious, she’ll—what are you doing?”

“Warming up.”

The barefoot girl wasn’t done with her pre-fight stretching. From stretching her legs, she’d moved onto her arms. And while the adventurers had watched her touch her toes and stretch her legs with interest, the next phase of her warm up was…different.

Ryoka shook her arms out in a fanning motion. It looked ridiculous, she knew. Sort of like a kid pretending to be a chicken. But it was a necessary stretch if she wanted to throw hooks when she was fighting. She began to circle her arms around, first in one direction and then the other.

Adventurers were laughing. Ryoka ignored them. She raised her arm and grabbed the elbow, gently pushing it down her back. Then she repeated it with her other arm.

All in all, the stretches took five minutes. Ryoka did everything from touching her toes to stretching out her legs to rotating her hips as if she was using a hula-hoop in slow motion.

When it was done, Ryoka could feel every part of her body was ready to go. She also had an audience. Besides the adventurers already watching her and Yvlon, a group of enterprising street vendors had joined the crowd along with a sizable group of pedestrians. They were already betting as they stood in the circle, chatting, eating food, and laughing at Ryoka’s antics.

Yvlon smiled as Ryoka walked into the center of the ring. She nodded to Ceria and took a few steps towards Ryoka.

“Interesting. You’re quite limber. Was that supposed to help you fight?”

“You don’t stretch before a fight?”

The other adventurers laughed or chuckled. Yvlon shook her head and replied drily.

“Not like that. I don’t think any warriors I know would do that—especially not in front of an audience.”

“Shame. One more advantage for me, then.”

It was amazing, Garia reflected as she watched Ryoka, that the other girl was completely—and always, come to think of it—confident. Even when she was facing down an adventurer in armor. At least, in a fight. She squirmed more when she was just talking to the [Receptionists] at the Runner’s Guild. But right now…Yvlon turned to the side where the Horns of Hammerad were standing.

“Pardon me. I was just reassuring your friends that this friendly exhibition would not be harmful to you. If you’ll allow me a minute, I’ll remove my armor.”

So saying, Yvlon began removing her gauntlets, but Ryoka shook her head.

“You can leave your armor on. The gauntlets too.”

The crowd had been talking and joking as they waited for the sparring match to begin, but Ryoka’s words created a hush as if someone had cast a [Silence] spell. Yvlon raised her eyebrows, and behind her, Ceria slapped her forehead.

“I wouldn’t want to hurt you.”

“It won’t be me that gets hurt.”

“Ryoka, don’t be an idiot!”

Ceria walked forwards and snapped at the barefoot runner. She lowered her voice so not everyone could hear her, but in the silence, her words were perfectly audible to those around her.

“Are you insane? You can’t fight someone in armor! Yvlon is a Silver-rank captain. Even if she pulls her punches, she’ll hurt you. This is just a sparring match—neither of you are supposed to get hurt.”

“Really? Then let’s make it a serious fight.”

Ceria groaned as Calruz grinned in approval. The Minotaur watched Ryoka approvingly, liking her bravado. Ceria did not. She hissed at Ryoka so only the Runner could hear.

“Yvlon is not someone to take lightly, Ryoka. She’s honorable, proud—even if she is being patient. Stop being so rude.”

“I’m taking her seriously, believe me. But I want to see what fighting someone in armor is like. And besides…you’ve never seen me fight, have you?”

Ceria blinked at Ryoka. She eyed her from top to toe.

“No—but—”

“Trust me.”

“If Miss Ryoka Griffin says she’s confident, I will trust her word, Ceria.”

Yvlon smiled at the half-Elf, meeting Ceria’s worried stare. An unspoken message passed between the two, and Ceria’s pointed ears lowered slightly before she stepped back.

Now, Ryoka and Yvlon were alone in the center of the ring. Ryoka bounced on the balls of her feet, eying Yvlon as the other woman divested herself of her belt pouches and sword.

“I am afraid Ceria is right though, Ryoka. I would hate for you to break your hands on my armor or for me to cut your face with my gauntlets. I am sure I would be able to give you a fair fight even without my armor.”

“It’s fine. You’re not wearing a helmet anyways.”

Again, Ryoka’s words caused a stir in the crowd, and not an entirely positive one. From her position, Garia could see some of the other adventurers—especially the armored women who were part of the Silver Spears—looking annoyed or outright angry at Ryoka’s words.

But Yvlon only smiled politely. It was a smile quite similar to Lady Magnolia’s, actually. A [Lady]’s smile that gave nothing away.

“Very well. I am told you practice some sort of unarmed fighting? You said it was…MMA? I confess that I have only a bit of formal training myself. Much of what I know is self-taught.”

“Yeah. I practice Mixed Martial Arts. Muay Thai.”

“And you are a skilled practitioner of this…Muay Thai?”

“Where I come from, yeah.”

“Interesting. Then shall we begin? I believe it would be only courteous to allow you the first strike.”

Yvlon walked forwards a few steps and then raised her gauntleted arms in something close to a boxer’s guard. The murmuring of the crowd increased as Ryoka began circling the other woman, hands up.

Her posture was different than it would be in a Muay Thai sparring match. Ryoka was treating this like an MMA fight, although she’d never been in one herself. But she’d practiced on the off-chance her parents would allow her to fight in the ring.

Her posture and center of balance were lowered, her stance was wider, and her hands were loosely clasped into fists. She rested more weight on her front leg as she eyed Yvlon.

Now that she was finally in front of the other woman, Ryoka found time for a shred of regret that she was fighting the other woman in armor. It was complete idiocy to fight anyone in armor barehanded. She knew that.

But part of Ryoka wanted this. She wanted the challenge; she wanted to see how far she could push herself against unfair odds like this. And most of all, she wanted to win even with Yvlon in full plate armor. She wanted it quite badly, in fact.

The other woman slowly rotated to follow Ryoka as the barefoot girl circled her. She was waiting for Ryoka’s first move, as she’d said.

Well, that was fine with her. Ryoka feinted with her hands. Yvlon’s instinctively moved to block. Ryoka put all her weight onto her front leg and spun, throwing her back leg up and back towards the side of Yvlon’s head in what was known as a spinning wheel kick.

Ryoka’s leg flashed upwards, and Yvlon barely raised her arms in time to protect her head. Despite the armor she wore, she still staggered back from the impact.

That was the moment Ryoka had really been waiting for. Even before she was fully back upright, she moved sideways and threw a punch at Yvlon’s head.

Her hands were impossibly quick. Garia couldn’t even see Ryoka as the girl threw a lightning-fast jab at the adventurer’s face.

Ryoka’s right hand flew forwards in a strike that would have caught Yvlon straight on the tip of her chin. But before it landed, one silver-plated hand came up and seized Ryoka’s hand.

From her position, Garia saw the barefoot girl’s eyes widen, and then she twisted both body and head to avoid Yvlon’s fist. She couldn’t get away perfectly, held as she was by the other adventurer. The gauntlet caught Ryoka on the side of the jaw and drew blood.

The adventurers in the crowd cheered as Yvlon released Ryoka’s hand. That was probably a wise move regardless, because the look in the other girl’s eyes was pure fury. Ryoka muttered an expletive around her bleeding mouth and spat.

Yvlon gave Ryoka a polite smile as she raised her fists again. The light glinted off the polished metal and specks of blood on her right gauntlet.

“I understand your pride, Ryoka Griffin, but we adventurers have our own dignity. You underestimate us at your peril. Are you sure you wouldn’t like me to remove my armor?”

That was the wrong thing to say. Ceria shouted something at Ryoka, but Garia saw the look in the Runner’s eyes. Slowly, she straightened, wiping the rest of the blood away from her cut lips.

“I’m going to get serious now.”

Yvlon seemed to sigh, but in an instant, her guard was back up, and she was watching Ryoka warily. She didn’t underestimate the other girl despite having scored a point first.

Ryoka paused for a moment, staring hard at Yvlon. Then she advanced slowly, raising her hands above her head.

The adventurers in Esthelm were nothing if not admiring of someone with spirit. Half of them egged Ryoka on, laughing and cheering as she advanced on Yvlon while the other half bet whether she’d even manage to strike the other woman’s face.

Yvlon’s eyes narrowed as Ryoka got closer and closer. Before the other girl could move, she stepped forwards and threw a lightning-quick punch at Ryoka’s head.

Ryoka didn’t dodge so much as lean on one leg and move her head down. The metal fist missed her head by inches, prompting a gasp from her audience. But neither woman was finished.

Even as Ryoka dodged her first punch, Yvlon’s second hand flew up in an uppercut towards Ryoka’s face. But again, Ryoka took a step back and avoided the blow with mere inches to spare. Then she threw a backhand at Yvlon’s face.

Again, the adventurer blocked, but this time, Ryoka wasn’t interested in kicking. She darted behind Yvlon as the adventurer turned in her heavier armor. Ryoka hooked her leg behind Yvlon’s and kicked straight through, sending the armored adventurer tumbling to the ground.

The crash of metal was the only sound in the silence. Yvlon rolled and got to her feet in an instant, ready for an attack, but Ryoka just stood with her guard up, waiting.

“Well.”

Was it a rueful smile? It flicked across Yvlon’s face in an instant before she went all-out on the attack. She rushed at Ryoka, throwing swift punches that made the other girl dodge back.

It still wasn’t an equal fight. Even Garia could see that Ryoka was mostly on the defensive, unable to hit Yvlon while the other adventurer guarded her face. It wasn’t an equal fight.

But it was silent. Now, all the adventurers were watching Ryoka like hawks. She dodged back, letting Yvlon come at her, always moving, darting in for strikes against Yvlon’s head before escaping.

Ryoka missed the timing for one of her strikes, and Yvlon caught her in a flurry of blows. Ryoka took a punch to the midsection and a glancing blow off one shoulder—and then kicked Yvlon in the stomach hard enough to send the adventurer staggering back.

Again, Ryoka charged Yvlon. She avoided a wild punch and then had the other woman’s back. She stepped behind Yvlon with one leg and, using her elbow, threw the woman back over her knee. Again, the crash of metal was the only sound in the silence.

This time, Ryoka didn’t let Yvlon get up. She advanced on the adventurer as she struggled to get off the ground. Yvlon turned and lashed out with her fist, almost too fast for Garia to follow. But Ryoka had been expecting that. She leaned back and then seized the other woman’s arm.

Garia saw Yvlon strike upwards at Ryoka, a flash of movement as the other girl twisted around her—for a second, all was confusion, and then Ryoka was twisting Yvlon’s arm up while she planted her knee on her back.

It was over. Ryoka was holding the arm as high as the armor would allow. She was about to transition into a choke hold when she saw Yvlon’s hand push against the ground—

Ryoka was thrown off by the explosive force as Yvlon threw herself back, knocking the other girl off her. She turned and kicked, and Ryoka tumbled with the force of the blow.

Yvlon was trying to rotate her arm and work out the pain when she saw Ryoka roll and tumble upright in a flash of motion. She blinked—and caught a fist to her face for the first time. Ryoka’s hand knocked her head back slightly. As Yvlon was stunned, two more lightning-fast jabs hit her on the cheek and jaw.

The fourth punch Yvlon caught in a grip like steel. Ryoka braced herself, but no metal fist came swinging her way.

The Captain of the Silver Spears was shaking her head, and her mouth was moving. Over the roar of blood in Ryoka’s ears, she realized people were shouting, and the adventurer released her hand and relaxed her stance as she massaged her mouth.

The fight was over.



——



“What was that?”

That was the first question Garia asked Ryoka once she had a chance. This was mainly because everyone else was queuing up for food in the Guild’s mess hall.

Ryoka shrugged and pushed at her food with a sour face. It wasn’t that she wasn’t hungry—she was ravenous—but she was already tired of answering questions.

Reluctantly, she bit into a bit of juicy sausage and replied to the awestruck girl sitting across from her.

“Those were throws. Special moves to take down an opponent. Haven’t you ever seen someone tossing an opponent to the ground before?”

“Well, yeah, of course, but…”

Garia floundered as she searched for words.

“You made it look so easy. Yvlon was in armor, and you just threw her to the ground—twice!”

“It would have been better if I’d kept her down.”

Ryoka grunted as she chomped hard on her food. At least she was able to savor it. A healing potion had taken care of all her injuries—and Yvlon’s.

Garia stared at her incredulously.

“You knocked down a Silver-rank Captain. Anyone would be proud of that.”

Ryoka smiled.

“Yeah. And I got to hit her.”

“Those last two punches were unnecessary.”

Ceria’s voice made the two Runners look up. The half-Elf slid onto the long table and frowned at Ryoka.

“You didn’t need to hit her that many times. This was supposed to be a gentle spar, not you trying to break her jaw.”

Ryoka looked completely unapologetic.

“Oops.”

Ceria made a noise that sounded like a sigh crossed with a hiss and muttered darky under her breath. Ceria Springwalker was angry enough that she looked ready to shoot sparks from her eyes—until she grew abruptly calm.

She rose and, without a word, stepped back. Ryoka waited, but Ceria just walked away. The Runner looked almost disappointed. She was ravenous—and still shaking with adrenaline from the fight.

Taking a seat across from Ryoka, Garia stabbed at her food. Thus far, she and Garia were the only two people to have joined Ryoka in the mess hall, despite the numerous adventurers sitting around them.

Predictably, Ryoka had chosen the far corner of the furthest table from the door, which meant that there would be far fewer people able to talk to her. But it seemed as though quite a few adventurers would have liked to come up and chat; only a few did.

These were the members of the Horns of Hammerad and the various Silver-rank captains Ryoka had met. Two of them, the man named Cervial with the longbow and Yvlon, took seats next to Ryoka.

Maybe it wasn’t intentional, but Cervial took the seat directly next to Ryoka, putting himself between the two women. It wasn’t as if either woman were overtly hostile to the other—and indeed, they were quite polite.

But if Yvlon was polite and genuinely admiring of Ryoka after the fight, there was a certain edge in Ryoka’s replies and comments that didn’t pass unnoticed at the table.

Yvlon politely munched on a boiled piece of asparagus or asparagus-like vegetable and commented to the table at large, but Ryoka and Garia specifically.

“You see, it’s not as if we’re hurting for money or jobs at the moment. There’s always work, and we can brave the Ruins of Albez for quite a profit most of the time. But it’s not sustainable in the long run.”

Cervial nodded. He stabbed at his food and made a face.

“Adventuring isn’t easy at our level. We’re just good enough that it’s not worth our time to take requests clearing out Goblin tribes unless they’re really big—but we don’t have the strength to take on the stronger types of monsters. Sooner or later, our luck runs out and we take an injury we can’t heal up from—or die. That’s why these new ruins might be our break. If we can get in there and find some serious magical artifacts or equipment, we could easily reach Gold-rank.”

“The only question is whether the risks in this case are worth the reward. So far, Cervial’s team—the Flawless Flights—mine, and Calruz’s are the only ones who are willing to go in first.”

“It took some doing, but Ceria convinced me that the ruins could be loaded with ancient artifacts. They’re quite similar to ancient crypts apparently.”

Cervial drained his mug and nodded politely at the others.

“Still, we’re going in carefully. Both Yvlon and I are only doing this for the treasure.”

Ryoka shifted. She looked across the room at where adventurers were still being served. Perhaps it was because of his size, but Calruz had been stuck at the back of the line, and he was grumpy about waiting. He kept casting glances at the now-full table Ryoka was sitting at, irritated.

“What about Calruz, then?”

Yvlon chuckled politely, and Cervial shook his head.

“He just wants the challenge. That stupid Minotaur doesn’t care what enemies he’s fighting so long as he can gain experience from it. He’s an old-fashioned type. Death or glory with no in between. Not like the rest of us.”

Ryoka nodded. She thought she understood from context alone. If Yvlon and Cervial were adventurers who relied upon magical equipment along with their levels to get stronger, Calruz was the kind of person who thought gaining more levels was all that he needed. She looked at Cervial.

“What’s the level difference between a Silver-ranked adventurer and a Gold-rank?”

“The difference? Well—it could be just a few levels depending on their equipment. Remember, in most cases it’s the entire party who gets the Gold-rank. I guess Silver-rank is mostly in the low twenties at best while Gold-rank is anywhere from Level 24 onwards.”

“Of course, individual skill still plays a pretty big role.”

Yvlon nodded at Calruz as the Minotaur impatiently waited for his food, clearly unhappy at missing the conversation and having to wait behind lesser adventurers.

“Calruz isn’t 30, but he’s damn close. He’s also a Minotaur. He could have found his way onto a Gold-rank team, but he wanted to be in command.”

At last, the talked-of Minotaur was served a double portion onto his plate. He stomped towards the table, pausing when he saw there was nowhere to sit.

He took two steps towards Ryoka and pointed to Garia. The girl flinched as Calruz growled at her.

“You. Runner. Move.”

“O-oh. Sure.”

Garia was about to slip out of her seat, but Ryoka and—surprisingly—Cervial grabbed her by the clothing.

“Hold it, Calruz. You can’t just order someone to leave. Pull up a chair or sit at the other end of the table.”

Calruz scowled down at Cervial.

“She is no warrior. This place is reserved for adventurers, not mere Runners.”

Ryoka raised her eyebrows. Apparently, she didn’t count. Garia squeaked and trembled by her side.

“I—I can go. It’s no problem. I didn’t want to get in the way—”

The standoff between them ended when someone booted Calruz in the butt as hard as she could. He actually noticed the move, but the half-Elf kicked him despite it. Calruz whirled—and she snapped at him.

“You stubborn idiot. Let Garia sit. For a Minotaur who talks about honor, you certainly don’t have much when it comes to non-warriors.”

Ryoka lowered the plate she had ready to toss, and Cervial stopped leaning back.

“I’m defending the integrity of—”

“Oh shut up, Calruz. Is it honorable to bully someone who runs deliveries for people like us? Is that what a proud member of the House of Minos’ Beriad does? Sit down.”

That comment caused a hush among the nearby adventurers, and especially the rest of the Horns of Hammerad, but Calruz looked unmoved. He sat at the table, ignoring Garia like a footstool.

“Honor is for those who earn it. I don’t know this Runner’s character.”

Ryoka frowned, but made no comment as Garia instantly went back to her food, avoiding looking at Calruz. There was a lot she wanted to say, but flipping the Minotaur’s food into his face was more appealing.

But since she had the feeling Garia might carry at least some of the Minotaur’s ire if she did it, Ryoka—reluctantly—held back. But the Minotaur’s attitude annoyed her.

Still—now that Ryoka thought about it, she’d never heard Calruz say anything of substance to the other girl. He’d talked and she’d talked when they were in the inn, but the two had never directly spoken to each other that much.

As Ryoka’s eyes flicked towards Calruz and her expressionless face darkened slightly, Yvlon nudged Cervial. The taller man looked at Ryoka and spoke lightly.

“Your skill at unarmed fighting is quite incredible. I can see how it would be useful keeping away bandits and Goblins.”

“Mm?”

Ryoka looked up, realized she’d been addressed, and shrugged.

“It helps.”

“You wouldn’t happen to be able to use any other weapons besides your fists, would you? A bow, for example?”

Across the table, Gerial objected.

“Wait a second, Cervial, if you’re going to recruit Ryoka, the Horns of Hammerad have the right to make the first offer.”

Sostrom and the other adventurers agreed while the adventurers that were part of the Flawless Flights shouted from their table across the hall. Cervial laughed and raised his hands and then looked at Ryoka.

“I don’t use weapons. And I’m not interested.”

“A shame. But I hope if you see a request from us you’ll consider taking it. In fact, if you’d like, we could arrange to request deliveries from you alone if you’re ever in the same area as we are.”

That got Ryoka’s attention. What Cervial was suggesting was a form of personalized contract in the Runner’s Guild. That way, he could offer her exclusive deliveries.

“Why? Any Runner can deliver healing potions.”

“But no one has the guts to do it when there’s a Lich raining spells down on our heads.”

That remark came from Sostrom, and it was met with agreement from the other adventurers. Cervial nodded.

“Being an adventurer is all about finding trustworthy contacts. Good Runners like you for instance—having someone to rely on when we’re out exploring dungeons is far better than requesting an emergency delivery and hoping the Runner we get is competent.”

He shrugged.

“Not that we ever plan to get in trouble of course, but when we’re in a pinch…at our level, we need to forge friendships and build up our group. It’s not something people think about, but there’s really no other way to survive. We trust each other with our backs or we’ll fall together.”

Something about that line tickled Ryoka’s memory. She grunted and then looked at Cervial. The words came out before she could stop them. The same anger and contempt leaping from her thoughts out her mouth.

“You sound like a bunch of Runners when you say it like that.”

The mood at the table froze over for a second. Garia stared wide-eyed at Ryoka and then tried to edge back in her seat. Cervial’s smile flickered and then came back.

“Really? That’s not a good thing, usually. The Runner’s Guild and the Adventurer’s Guild don’t get along. They think we’re all muscle-bound idiots, and we think they’re—”

“Cowards.”

Calruz grunted and ate half a sausage in one huge bite.

“I wouldn’t say cowards.”

Yvlon objected, but most of the other adventurers seemed to agree with Calruz. Yvlon sighed and smiled at Garia reassuringly.

“Not all of you. It’s just that it’s an unfortunate comparison to make, Ryoka.”

“Seems accurate to me.”

Ryoka deliberately popped the last bit of sausage into her mouth and took a drink, conscious of all the eyes on her. Cervial was still smiling, but it was a brittle smile.

“Really? And which Runners do we sound like?”

“Guy named Fals. He says the same things as you do. Runners have to band together in order to survive. Sacrifice the good of the individual for the group. ‘Work together or die.’”

Thoughtfully, Cervial propped his head on his hand. He was still smiling, but there was a tiny bit of anger in his eyes. Ryoka recognized it as something similar to her own. She felt…prickly. More so even than usual.

“I can agree with that. And I know Fals. He’s no coward, although he does represent most of the things I dislike about the Runner’s Guild. But he’s not wrong. It’s a tough world. Yet you seem to disagree?”

Ryoka let the question dangle. She drained her mug, replenishing lost sweat. She wiped her mouth and shrugged.

“I’m not a team player.”

Her comment ended the conversation. There wasn’t really much that you could say to that. Garia slurped at her soup nervously and tried not to meet anyone’s eyes. Yvlon leaned across the table and smiled at Ryoka.

“Well, in any case, if you’d like to work for any of our teams, we’d be happy to set up an arrangement. With your skills, we wouldn’t have to worry about you being chased off by monsters. In fact, if you’d like to join our expedition to the ruins around Liscor to deliver supplies, we could work out a deal.”

Calruz shook his head at Yvlon. Ceria hadn’t sat down yet, but she drew Cervial aside as he got up. She prodded Calruz in the back of the head—he ignored it. She nodded to Yvlon, and the armored woman rose with a questioning look. Ryoka was in the midst of talking to Calruz as Yvlon, Cervial, and Ceria stepped back for a private word by the bar.



——



“Ceria, what did you want to say?”

Cervial was polite to her. Even if he was a captain of another team, the Flawless Flights, he knew she was, well, a half-Elf.

Older. Not that she’d lived amongst other folk than half-Elves for most of her life, but it carried weight. The half-Elf [Cryomancer] smiled apologetically as she motioned him and Yvlon aside.

“Nothing much, Cervial. I just wanted to apologize for Ryoka’s conduct. You too, Yvlon.”

“She’s better at fighting than I thought. I did agree to challenge her.”

The captain of the Silver Spears sounded too politely neutral to fool either Ceria or Cervial. The half-Elf grimaced.

“I know she’s making a bad impression. I think she’s—rattled from the High Passes.”

“Rattled?”

“She ran in this morning, after running from just outside of Celum all the way here. Nonstop. She nearly got killed by the monsters, and I think—she’s a great Runner. Saved our lives.”

“I can see why, with her moves.”

Again, Yvlon sounded too matter-of-fact, but she was softening a bit as Ceria laid out what she knew. The half-Elf nodded, one eye on Ryoka.

“I think…it would be best to have given her some room. That idiot Calruz is crowding her up. And you know Magnolia Reinhart was doing something with her.”

Now, Yvlon did hesitate, and the woman gave Ceria an apologetic nod.

“My aunt is insistent. When you put it like that—”

“Does that mean she hasn’t slept for at least a day? And then she ran over here and picked a fight with a Silver-rank Captain? She’s got the attitude of a Gold-ranker.”

“Ego, too. But give her a bit. She’s rough—but who isn’t? Besides, she had her legs smashed with a wagon two weeks ago.”

“She what?”

Ceria exhaled in relief. She began regaling both team captains with the story, and by the time she was done, both were giving Ryoka much friendlier looks.

“When you put it like that, I imagine I’d be biting mad at everyone. Thanks for letting us know, Ceria. No wonder Calruz and Gerial speak so highly of you.”

“Just interjecting some common sense.”

The half-Elf waved it away. By now, Gerial had come by, and he was nodding respectfully.

“Maybe we let Ryoka cool off? Gerial, why are you here? I told you to grab Calruz. If he makes a joke about her breasts—”

Ceria frowned at Gerial, but the man lifted an apologetic hand.

“He shoved me off. He and Ryoka were just talking punches and kicks. He’s good at it, you know.”

Ceria craned her neck over his shoulder, suddenly alarmed. She punched Gerial in the arm—hard, and he looked wounded as Yvlon and Cervial turned.

“What? They were getting into it.”

“You sack of tree sap, Gerial. I told you to grab him before—”



——



Calruz knew more about hand-to-hand combat than Ryoka had expected. She grudgingly admitted he knew about wrestling, pinning moves—throws and punches and kicks. They were comparing techniques in decent spirit, although the Minotaur kept claiming that Ryoka was ‘just substantively smaller’ than a Minotaur woman.

“I’m not saying you’re inferior in technique. But size matters, and so do Skills. Do you have any in hand-to-hand combat? I thought not. You see, Runner Garia, it’s all commendable. But a warrior is a warrior, a Runner, a Runner. Even Ryoka Griffin would do well to run from any monsters she encounters. Her fists would not be enough to allow her survival in Liscor’s ruins.”

Ryoka raised her eyebrows at Calruz. She shifted in her seat as Garia mumbled agreement to the imposing Minotaur, full of ego.

“You don’t think I can defend myself? You saw me fight.”

The Minotaur had a piece of sausage stuck in his teeth. He picked at it with one long fingernail.

“I am merely stating the truth. Your fists would do little against most monsters my team faces. Less, since you are female and thus weaker.”

He looked around in the hush. Possibly Calruz didn’t see the way Ceria’s back tensed up and the half-Elf’s head came around. He certainly couldn’t ignore the look in Ryoka’s eyes though, and it was to her he spoke.

“Is it not the truth? Humans are weaker than Minotaurs by birth. So too are you women weaker than men.”

“Really. That’s what you think?”

“Calruz. Why don’t you shut up? Ryoka, let us get this idiot out of your face. We’ll give you a—”

Was it Ceria or Yvlon who spoke warningly? Ryoka ignored it. She reached out and tugged Calruz’s plate away as the Minotaur reached for a sausage. He looked up at her.

“Right. Your turn. Bring it on.”

For a moment, the Minotaur looked confused. Then he looked amused.

“You. You, Ryoka Griffin, wish to fight me?”

He laughed, but Ryoka didn’t. And neither did the other adventurers. Gerial raised his voice as he strode over.

“Ryoka. This isn’t a good idea.”

She ignored him.

“I’m dead serious. Fight me. Unless you’re afraid you’ll lose?”



——



“You idiot.”

This time, Ceria didn’t bother with just words. She punched Ryoka hard in the shoulder. Which wasn’t fair—but she’d also been stabbing a finger into Calruz’s chest the last seven minutes trying to get him to back down—and now she was after Ryoka since he’d refused.

“You don’t challenge a Minotaur to a fight. What are you thinking? Are you even thinking?”

Ryoka shrugged as she warmed up in the practice arena again. Her nerves were thrumming, but a pit of dark emotions roiled in her chest.

“You heard what he said about females.”

“I did. And he’s got a point even if he did make it in the most bull-headed way possible. But that’s Calruz. And even if he’s being an idiot, there’s a big difference between calling him on it and challenging him to a fight. You know you’re going to lose, right?”

“Not necessarily.”

Ceria stared dumbfounded at Ryoka as the girl stretched on the ground. She looked helplessly at Yvlon.

“Help me talk sense to her?”

Yvlon nodded. For some reason, she was now all team-Ryoka, which showed what a turncoat bitch she was. Oh, Miss High-And-Mighty now wants to be friends because of girl-power? Ryoka hated that vapid weathercocking.

“Ceria is right, Ryoka. There’s bravado, and then there’s—this. Fighting me in armor is one thing, but Calruz is a Minotaur. He could rip my head off in unarmed combat without trying.”

“And he will if he makes a mistake.”

“I guess I’ve just got to dodge, then.”

Ryoka ignored the muted scream of fury coming from Ceria. She eyed Calruz. The Minotaur was actually finishing his meal, holding a plate as he waited for her to finish stretching. His casual indifference just lit a fire in her stomach.

“Besides, I wanted to challenge him from the start. See how far I can go.”

“How about into the ground when he puts you there? Ryoka! He’s got to weigh at least two hundred pounds more than you do!”

“Size isn’t everything.”

“It’s pretty cursed important in a fight!”

Ceria was right, of course. Ryoka eyed Calruz for the first time as a potential threat. When you looked at Calruz as a person, he was just huge, inconveniently so sometimes. But as an enemy? He was way scarier than any Human Ryoka had ever seen.

He was about six foot seven? Maybe a few inches higher, without even counting the horns. And his body was pure muscle. Not like Human muscle, but Minotaur muscle, which was to say that he looked like a wall of tendons and sinews.

It was the stupidest thing in the world to challenge him. But Ryoka really, really wanted to try. She just wanted to hit the Minotaur, almost as much as she’d wanted to hit Yvlon.

Yvlon. The adventurer was studying Ryoka thoughtfully. It made Ryoka want to punch her again, too. She was so tired and—and frustrated that hitting anything sounded good.

Like Ceria, if it would get the half-Elf to shut up.

“Potions don’t fix shattered bones! You know that. And you get him mad—”

“Look, I’m going to do it. You want to let me focus or go away and shut up?”

Silence. Ryoka glanced up and saw Ceria giving her a hurt look, full of reproach. The barefoot girl’s heart hurt, but she put the pain and guilt away. She had to focus.

Ryoka was angry. She felt it bubbling in her gut, a seething, roiling ball of pure fury. Where had it come from?

From the High Passes, that’s where. From nearly dying and being helpless even with all the years she’d studied martial arts. From Teriarch and his overpowering magic and arrogance. From the Runner’s Guild and stupid people. From dealing with the ridiculous system of leveling in this world and not least—dealing with some kind of perfect lady knight and a misogynistic Minotaur. It was all bubbling out of Ryoka, and she couldn’t stop it. She wanted to hit something, and Calruz was a big target.

Yvlon sighed.

“If you’re going to do this—give it all you’ve got on the first shot.”

Ceria spoke bitterly.

“He’s going to take every hit just to show he can. It’s a Minotaur thing—a sign of disrespect. And…courtship.”

“Great.”

Ryoka eyed Calruz. The Minotaur was finished eating. He carelessly tossed the plate over his shoulder. Ignoring the crash of breaking pottery, he walked into the center of the ring and folded his arms, waiting for her to finish.

At last, the girl stood up. She was burning with a desire to fight, almost shaking with it. Ryoka couldn’t keep still as she bounced on her feet with nervous energy.

Ceria eyed the girl as she walked past her. Ryoka stopped.

“What is it?”

“You—you’re smiling.”

Was she? Ryoka couldn’t tell. She only knew that she was ready, more ready than she’d ever been to hurt someone else. She was shaking with the desire to throw a punch. She walked towards Calruz, and the Minotaur impassively looked down at her.

“What you are attempting is folly, Ryoka Griffin. There are some things that cannot be surpassed.”

He really, really knew how to push her buttons. Ryoka gritted her teeth and grinned up at him.

“Oh really? Let’s see what you say in a few minutes.”

“As you wish.”

Calruz carelessly raised one massive hand and beckoned Ryoka with a finger. The other adventurers murmured and cheered for Ryoka to hit him with her best shot. The Minotaur didn’t even bother raising his other hand.

He was going to try to block her one-handed? But his fur and muscle could probably take any punch Ryoka could throw. She knew that. So instead, Ryoka stomped her foot down in front of Calruz and twisted.

One of the core principles of a lot of powerhouse moves was spinning. Ryoka put all her weight on her front leg, twisted, and hit the Minotaur with the back of her heel and all the momentum she’d built up.

Spinning back kick. Ryoka aimed high. Her leg still caught the Minotaur in his stomach rather than his chest. She felt the contact and heard the Minotaur gasp as the wind left him. She’d put her entire weight into that attack.

It was the kind of move you used to K.O. other people, and it was seldom used because of how hard it was to land. But Calruz was arrogant. He’d let his guard down, and Ryoka had held nothing back.

The Minotaur’s expression changed. He was obviously trying not to show any pain, but his hand reflexively went down to protect his stomach, and he bent just a tiny bit. Ryoka didn’t wait. Even as her foot came down, she used it as an anchor and swung her other leg up.

Her leg came up, and she smashed into Calruz’s face with a roundhouse kick. She didn’t break his nose, but that was probably because the Minotaur didn’t have a nice fleshy bit of cartilage like Humans.

This time, he bellowed, but Ryoka wasn’t done. She landed and started laying into the Minotaur, punching hard.

He swiped at her with one hand. Ryoka ducked under it and belted him twice in the stomach. Calruz shouted as she hit the same spot she’d kicked and shoved her with one arm.

Ryoka was thrown sideways, but she landed, jumped, and kicked the Minotaur in the chest. He staggered back, looking outraged. She pounded his chest.

Now he was really starting to get angry. Calruz punched at her far faster than she would have guessed he’d be able to move, but Ryoka did the same thing she had to Yvlon. Her head and body were in constant motion as she ducked and weaved, letting the Minotaur swing wide.

Low kick. Ryoka hammered Calruz’s legs with powerful kicks, wincing internally at the impact. The Minotaur had goat-like legs with cloven hooves, and it felt like she was kicking a baseball bat when she hit him.

He nearly got her with an uppercut. Ryoka grinned, turned, and kicked him straight on with a kick to the stomach again. She raised her hands, hit him twice in the stomach—

And then he punched her.



——



Ryoka jerked upright and felt multiple sets of hands pushing her down. Someone was on top of her. Someone light?

A pair of pointed ears and hazel hair. Ceria covered Ryoka protectively as she shouted at something. Something?

A loud roar of fury made Ryoka sit up. She looked up and saw Calruz being held back by ten men as he tried to rush at her. The Minotaur’s eyes were actually red with rage, and a trickle of blood was running from both nostrils.

What had happened? Ryoka tried to move, felt the agony coming out of her chest, and realized she’d been hit. Hit.

She couldn’t breathe. Hell, she could barely move. Calruz was shouting something, her ears were ringing, and Ceria was telling her to stay still. But Ryoka’s blood was still on fire. She still wanted to fight.

She stood up.

“Hold it!”

Ceria pushed Ryoka’s shoulder to sit down, but the girl knocked her arm away. She raised her fists, but now Garia, Yvlon, and Ceria were all pulling her back.

A few feet away, Gerial was swearing and pulling at Calruz with all his might as the Minotaur roared a challenge at Ryoka.

“Calm down, Calruz! Hold still, dead gods damn it!”

Ceria was talking desperately to Ryoka as the girl strained towards the Minotaur.

“You’ve made your point, Ryoka. No one’s underestimating you. Let’s stop before someone gets seriously hurt.”

Her brain wasn’t synching up with her mouth. Ryoka tried a few times.

“No. Let’s keep going.”

“Are you crazy?”

“I’m not done. Let Calruz go. I’ll take him on.”

The men holding the Minotaur gaped at Ryoka and then redoubled their efforts to hold the raging Minotaur.

“Enough!”

Another man strode forwards and stood between Ryoka and Calruz. He had a huge axe on his back, and he was nearly as burly as the Minotaur, if not quite so tall. He glared at Ryoka.

“Gerial, get your captain under control. And you, girl, back down!”

Gregor, one of the Silver-rank Captains, scowled as the men eventually managed to push Calruz back. The Minotaur was still breathing heavily, but his eyes were no longer red with fury.

“This was a ridiculous display. What are you both doing? The Adventurer’s Guild is not a place for anything but training spars, much less unarmed foolishness.”

He pointed at Ryoka.

“You’re a hothead Runner, and challenging a Minotaur just proves how idiotic you are. No matter how good you are with your fists, it won’t help you against monsters. You’ve seen the ones in the High Passes. Swords and even battleaxes don’t work on their hides.”

Ryoka glared at him. His words were true, and they hurt.

“I survived.”

“Must’ve been a miracle, then. The way you act, I’m surprised you haven’t offed yourself already. You’re either suicidal or an idiot. Even adventurers don’t pull stunts like this.”

“I don’t need an axe to do my job. And I don’t need you to tell me what to do. Back off. I’ll take on Calruz without you lot getting in the way.”

Gregor opened and closed his mouth with wordless fury.

“You blind, arrogant—if Ceria hadn’t jumped in the way, he would have crushed your head like a fruit. You can’t take him. Back down.”

Ryoka eyed Calruz. He was restraining himself—with difficulty—but she knew if the men stopped holding him he’d rush right at her. And she felt like doing the same. Her blood was boiling.

“I can still fight.”

“Even if you were Level 20, he’d still be able to crush you like a bug! And you’re no warrior. You don’t have any fighting Skills that I saw—”

“I don’t need Skills to fight.”

“But you don’t even have any levels.”

Everyone stopped talking. Gregor paused, red-faced, ready to shout and stared at the person who had spoken. Yvlon smiled at Ryoka and nodded once politely.

“I don’t understand. And truthfully, I didn’t believe my aunt when she told me that. But it is true, isn’t it? I couldn’t believe it until just now, but it must be true. You don’t have any levels or any classes at all, do you?”

Ryoka stared at her wordlessly. Anger surged in her belly. How dare she? How did she know?

“Not one.”

Cervial spoke from behind Ryoka. He was studying her. As she turned to stare at him, he tapped one eye.

“[Appraisal]. It’s a Skill that [Marksmen] get sometimes. I can’t see your level or your class.”

Even Calruz was dumbfounded by this revelation. The adventurers exchanged glances, and Ryoka heard the whispering.

“No levels?”

“Why?”

“Is she some kind of demi-human—no, a monster?”

“Who wouldn’t level? Is she a fool?”

“Cursed?”

Ryoka gritted her teeth.

“I don’t need levels to fight.”

Gregor shook his head at her, disbelieving.

“What are you, an idiot? How would you survive a second against a monster without levels?”

The fury that was boiling in Ryoka seized hold of her tongue.

“It’s not about levels. Your stupid little system doesn’t interest me. I don’t believe in needing levels or classes. It’s all stupid, and it makes you cowards. Silver-rank? Gold-rank? You just use those words because you don’t have the guts to fight.”

The words came out of Ryoka before she could stop herself. She pointed at Gregor as the man’s face turned red. But all of the adventurers were listening, and Ryoka couldn’t stop.

“I survived the High Passes without a single level. I did it because I wasn’t afraid and needed half a dozen people in armor to hold my hand. And if you lot had any guts, you wouldn’t sit around whining about how a bunch of unexplored ruins are too dangerous.”

“You truly believe you can surpass the rest of us without needing to level don’t you?”

Yvlon stared hard at Ryoka, for once not smiling. Even Garia was staring at Ryoka as if seeing her for the first time. Ceria…Ceria looked upset. Angry—but she was staring at Ryoka as if she were just being let down.

Fuck you too. They didn’t know her. Ryoka was sick of everyone and everything here. She didn’t answer Yvlon. She just wiped at the blood coming from her mouth. But that was an answer in itself.

“What arrogance.”

It came from out of the crowd. Ryoka turned, and this time, the blood in her veins was roaring. She was beyond caring about anything.

“Really? Arrogance? All I see are people too afraid to do anything until they level up. People who have to hide in a group to cover how pitiful they are.”

A murmur of hot anger went through the adventurers. Ryoka raised her fists.

“I’ll take you on one by one or all at once. Come on. Fight me.”

“Enough!”

This time, it was Ceria who shoved at Ryoka. The half-Elf was angry.

“You’re talking nonsense. But I won’t let you stand here and get yourself hurt. Stop this or I’ll have to use magic—”

It was just an impulse. But once it was started, Ryoka couldn’t stop. Her hand shot out and brushed Ceria’s chin. The half-Elf blinked, staggered, and sat down.

Ryoka stared at the half-Elf, rage eclipsed by sudden regret. She hadn’t meant to. She just wanted to get the mage to shut up for a second. But like before, like so many times before, her body had started moving before her brain.

A roar of anger came from Calruz. Suddenly, he was throwing off the other adventurers as they tried desperately to slow him down. He approached Ryoka, and she tensed.

But he didn’t strike at her. Instead, Calruz scooped up Ceria gently. He stared down at her, practically steaming with rage.

“You tread on Ceria’s honor. For that, I should challenge you to a duel with real weapons.”

“I’ll take you on.”

Something inside of Ryoka was snapping. She was full of fury and beyond caring what would happen next. Calruz seemed to vibrate at her challenge, but with incredible effort, he turned away.

“You are not worth the time it would take.”

Ryoka’s temper flared. She spoke to the Minotaur’s back, hearing each word leave her lips as some part of her screamed at her not to say them.

“I didn’t think you were a coward, Calruz.”

Gerial lunged. Not towards Ryoka, but with the rest of the Horns of Hammerad as they seized the Minotaur. Calruz’s head turned, and his eyes darkened with blood and rage. But he didn’t move with Ceria’s limp form in his hands. His voice quivered with fury.

“I was mistaken about you. You are no warrior. You are just a bully who wants something to hit.”

He began to walk away. Ryoka shouted after him.

“Calruz! Fight me! Come back here, you coward! Are you afraid?”

The Minotaur’s back tensed, but he kept walking. Gregor stared at Ryoka in fury, hand twitching towards his axe hilt.

“Enough! I won’t stand here and listen to this. If you want a fight, try your fists against my axe, girl.”

“Bring it.”

Ryoka raised her hands, but Yvlon stepped forwards.

“Enough. Restrain yourself, Ryoka Griffin.”

Something was snapping inside of Ryoka. It was the same feeling, the exact same. Part of her was shouting for her to put down her fists, to apologize. To get down on her hands and knees and bow before Ceria and Calruz. But like before, like so many times when she’d been kicked out of school, she’d crossed over the event horizon of fury.

She just wanted to punch. To hit something. And now that she’d let out all the bile in her stomach, Ryoka only knew how to lash out. So she did.

Her fist blurred and disappeared as it shot towards Yvlon’s face. But it was intercepted and crossed by a flash of silver.

Ryoka felt the punch lift her off her feet. She tried to step forwards, but her body suddenly forgot how to stand up. She sat down as her arms and legs simply shut down.

The world spun, and Ryoka saw Yvlon’s face full of regret and frustration. Her head fell back—



——



And when Ryoka awoke, she was alone. Not physically alone, but alone nevertheless.

Dusk had engulfed the sky. The sparring area of the Adventurer’s Guild was empty save for Ryoka and the half-Elf sitting on the ground next to her.

Ceria looked up as Ryoka sat up. The barefoot girl looked around, dizzy, and as Ryoka opened her mouth, Ceria tapped her wand on Ryoka’s head.

“[Silence].”

Ryoka was mute. The girl’s mouth opened, but no words came out. Ceria looked at her and shook her head. She reached behind her and picked up Ryoka’s pack and carefully put it next to the girl. Then Ceria sighed and stared up at the sky.

“I don’t know what it must have been like, going through the High Passes. You didn’t have more than scrapes on you, but Eater Goats, Gargoyles?”

Ryoka’s mouth was still moving in outrage, and she was getting angry—but Ceria was speaking precisely, like a [Mage], and perhaps it was her magic, but a coolness had fallen over Ryoka. Her bubbling anger…draining away. Growing cold, and with it, her guilt came flooding in, freezing in place. The half-Elf went on.

“It has to rattle you. Tree rot, getting my leg broken would be enough to put me out of shape for a month. I get it. But—there’s no excuse for just lashing out. You know Hunt, our teammate? He gets raving drunk. Calruz has nearly kicked him out several times. Not because he’s incompetent or a fool—because he gets into fights when he’s drunk. Even if he’s drunk, it’s not an excuse. You get me?”

When she looked over next, Ryoka was silent. Listening—and Ceria went on slowly.

“Yvlon Byres is a good adventurer. In the shadow of her brother, who’s some famous [Knight] with a Gold-rank team. I’ve never met him, but I know she comes across as snooty. Well, she’s allowed to be. You’re allowed to not like that and even give her a punch, maybe. But at what point is it not her fault?”

She rubbed at her chin, and Ryoka saw a faint bruise developing across that fair skin. Now, Ryoka’s temper was completely gone, and she was staring at her lap. Ceria’s voice was polite—pointed—and it was stabbing holes in Ryoka’s side.

“I’ve seen a lot of arrogance in my time. Mostly from Humans, but from every people, including my own. But someone who rejects the way the world works just because she doesn’t like it—that’s new. It’s been a while since I was hit by someone I call a friend as well.”

She looked at Ryoka. The girl couldn’t meet her eyes.

“If you want to keep fighting everyone who reaches out to help you, I’ll put a flower on your grave. But until then, get your stupid Human head back in order. You’re lucky—very lucky that Calruz is honorable and that the other adventurers listened to Yvlon and Cervial, or you might have suffered quite a bit.”

Ryoka was silent. She stared at the ground, face flushed. Memory only now returning. The haze of rage—Ceria spoke sharply.

“I get it, Ryoka. I do. But you’re even more hotheaded than Calruz. And yes, some of that was his fault, but that was fairly disgraceful.”

Ceria shook her head as Ryoka opened her mouth and tried to say something.

“No. Be silent. I am angry at you, Ryoka. And I am leaving until that anger is gone. The Horns of Hammerad and the other adventurers are heading to the ruins in Liscor. All of us. At least you stirred the crowd up—Gregor and Menes are back with us. But that doesn’t change what just happened.”

The half-Elven mage stood up and brushed at her robes. She waved her wand, and Ryoka felt the spell on her dissipate.

“May we meet in new forests, Ryoka Griffin. If you want to talk…find us in Liscor. But do any of that again and I’ll take you to task, not Calruz or Yvlon. And I don’t punch.”

Only then did the young woman realize some of the chill in the air had been magic, not just the pit of ice in her stomach. The half-Elf pointed down, and the frost and ice anchoring Ryoka to the ground unfroze. She produced a flower of ice in one hand—and then let it melt. Then she turned and walked away.

Silently, Ryoka watched Ceria go. A thousand words spun through her mind, and she opened her mouth to call something. To say…sorry.

But something held her tongue. She held her own tongue and wrestled with it. The lingering desire to curse Ceria and kick her in the back. And why—why? To the one person who’d been kind to her? It was there, a demon in the pit of her stomach.

When the doors to the Adventurer’s Guild closed behind Ceria, it was in silence.

The girl sat in the center of the sparring arena and felt the bruises and pain begin to flare up in her body. She was still exhausted, still hurt. But somehow, all of that was a backdrop to the incredible, terrible emptiness in her heart.

She’d done it. As before, now again. See—a girl who destroys everything she touches. Who wanders from school to school, never fitting in, picking fights with friends and anyone who crosses her way.

A child with nothing to hit who decides to fight the world. A barefoot runner who speaks with her fists. A heart full of black fury and hurtful words who spreads her foulness wherever she goes.

Angry girl. Rabid dog. Berserker. Suicidally competitive. Friendless loner. Lost soul.

Ryoka Griffin.

She’d lost friends before. She’d made enemies, burned bridges. Wherever she’d gone, from each school she’d transferred to, she’d left behind only bitter memories. Each time she’d lost control, she’d only left tears and regrets behind. She was used to erasing smiles.

But it had never hurt quite like this before.

Ryoka stood up and felt the silence closing in. The silence, and the empty despair that came with it. She looked at the ground and saw the blood of an honorable person. She looked behind her and knew there was no one at her back. A familiar, painful sight.

She could barely feel her hands. She was exhausted, upset, guilty, and angry. She didn’t know what to do.

Slowly, Ryoka’s feet moved. She took one step and then another. Ryoka picked her pack up off the ground and began to walk.

She left the Adventurer’s Guild. She ignored the voices, the chances to turn back. She saw the decorated, pink carriage, ignored the [Maids] and [Assassins] that tried to block her way. She just ran on.

Away, away, always away. Until the dawn broke and the end of day. Running from fear and friends alike, striving to always run, always be in flight. And though her heart bled and ached, she ran on again.

Towards Liscor and the Blood Fields beyond without a plan. Towards death and the unknown. Running. Always running without pausing. Leaving bloody footprints made of her unshed tears and broken ties.

Running.

Running away. And oh—but in the grief, in her self-destructive wake, her friends, if she had any, were waiting for her to return. But another group, a trio, followed Ryoka out of Esthelm, jogging onwards with no forgiveness or sympathy in their hearts.

Persua let Ryoka disappear into the distance before urging Toriska and Claudeil to follow. Her gaze followed Ryoka without blinking, without hesitation. And it was so intent that she ignored Toriska licking her lips every few seconds as she stammered excuses and Claudeil’s nervous breathing, despite them not having run yet. When they ran, they travelled light, with just a few objects in their packs and hanging at their sides.

Persua followed Ryoka, carrying the same depths the young woman was warring with in the pits of her own soul. Only hers had no remorse. And some of it—sometimes—leaked out Persua’s eyes.





1.49


When Erin woke up the next day, her eyes were tired and she was full of bleh.

Bleh being her word for her mood.

“Bleh.”

Toren paused and stared at her. Erin blinked at the walking skeleton with blue flames in its eyes and made weak shooing motions until it went away.

She didn’t feel like dealing with it. And by it she meant anything. And that included existing.

Erin stared down into a bowl of chewy oat-equivalents and wondered why the grains had an orange-gold rind. Apparently, they were dried Yellat flakes, a cheap food you could buy. They didn’t taste bad, but the orangy-ness…maybe it was the dirt?

It tasted okay, but bleh. And while Erin had money, she couldn’t afford to put much sugar in her meals. She had to save for the future.

And that was bleh. The idea of how much money she needed, the logistics of her inn, and the day-to-day work of maintaining it—it was all bleh, and it could go to bleh.

At least now she was able to automate most of the work—or rather, make Toren do all of it. The skeleton bustled around the inn, scrubbing at obstinate stains, hauling buckets of water in, and it had even managed to figure out how to put food on plates and carry them out.

It just didn’t have any idea of how carpentry or cooking worked. Erin had tried—but the skeleton didn’t quite get the idea of not stirring food with its bony arm or how beds were supposed to look.

It didn’t matter. With a little work, Erin had actually managed to transform the upstairs into a livable place. All of the mattresses had been rotted horribly and had to be disposed of, but some of the bed frames only needed a backboard replaced or a few boards changed.

Erin’s inn could now house quite a number of guests. It was just that Erin didn’t have anyone to put up there. And that included her. For the moment, Erin was still sleeping in the little nest she’d made in the corner of her kitchen. She had blankets, pillows, and it was a pain to haul all that upstairs and get situated again.

There was always Pisces, of course, but Erin really didn’t need a permanent squatter in her inn. Especially because his only payment came in the form of an occasional rambling lecture to Rags.

“Bleh.”

This time, Toren offered her a cup of juice. Erin took it and drank. It helped, but even a full belly wasn’t improving her mood.

Rags. Goblins and magic. Magic. Erin’s stomach gurgled at her, although that was probably just a reaction to the blue juice and the oatmeal.

She spent ten or twenty unhappy minutes in the newly made outhouse, testing the equipment as it were. Afterwards, Erin staggered outside, giving thanks that an equivalent to toilet paper existed in this world. But it was just more proof that this day was going to be a bad one, in her opinion.

If there was a bright ray of light on the horizon, it was tonight. Tonight was chess night.

That was to say, every night was chess night. Pawn had been bringing groups of Workers over with surprising regularity, and Erin enjoyed playing the Antinium.

They never won, of course. Even the best players—Pawn and one of the Workers—never even came close. But Erin loved chess in her bones, and more than that, she enjoyed seeing the Workers improve.

They had the most beautiful attitude towards chess she could ask for. Which was not throwing a tantrum when they lost—and she played seriously—but trying to learn. Realizing the game was deeper. It reminded her why she enjoyed the game, and that was a high-point in her life.

But that was later. For now, Erin had to go into the city. She needed pillows for her newly refurbished beds.

“Take care of the inn, okay?”

Toren nodded his head mechanically as Erin stomped out of the inn, her precious bag of coins tucked deep into her pocket. He raised the wet dustrag in his hands like a sword and attacked the dust.

If the skeleton had any thoughts on the day, it was simply that it was a shame he wasn’t killing anything. He understood in a vague way that he would not acquire the [Innkeeper] class because he did not in fact own an inn, but the [Barmaid] class was, he felt, something of a misnomer.

At least he was Level 2.

——

As Erin walked through the eastern gates, the Gnoll guard smiled toothily at her.

“Good day to you, Erin Solstice.”

“Hey…you.”

She had no idea what his name was. But the Gnoll seemed friendly enough. He looked bored, possibly because the only visitor he’d had was Erin.

Not many people used the road east. North was where the action was—where the main road took you to the northern cities and where all the adventurers, merchants, and general influx of Humanity was coming from. There was a road south, but it seemed few people used the eastern or southern gates at all.

And that was a curious thing. Erin knew there was a road that passed by her inn down south, and she’d seen it. But it seemed ill-kept compared to the well-established northern route. And the eastern ‘road’ was almost completely gone. There were only traces that led towards her inn.

Why? And why had there been an inn so close and yet so far from the city? Was there once a road there?

“Yeah, but most of the settlements got destroyed during the wars. Ever since, few people have lived outside of the city. Besides you. And no one goes south unless it’s winter because of the Bloodfields.”

For a few seconds, Erin thought the voice had come out of some strange part of her mind. Then she whirled around and realized she’d been talking out loud—and someone had provided her with an answer.

“Relc!”

The Drake leaned on his spear, grinning at her. Sort of grinning. Like the Gnoll, there were a lot of teeth.

“Yo.”

“Um, hi. I haven’t seen you around. What’s up?”

“I was looking for you. You busy? Because you are now.”

“I was going to buy pillows—”

“Really? You might have trouble with that. Did you hear what happened last night?”

“Last night?”

Curious, Erin followed Relc as the Drake walked speedily towards Market Street. It was disconcerting how quickly he could move despite giving the appearance of ambling along. It was definitely some sort of Skill.

Erin stopped as she turned the corner to Market Street.

“Oh man.”

“Yeah.”

Relc twirled his spear idly as Erin stared at the wreckage. And that was all it was.

Wreckage.

Nearly half of Market Street had been destroyed. Burnt, in point of fact. To a crisp. A fire had swept through the close, confined wooden stalls. They were meant to be just temporary structures, easily deconstructed for the next shopkeeper to display their wares. But the problem was that wood burned easily, and so when a fire did break out…

Even the stones in the street had cracked from the heat. Erin didn’t know rocks could break from heating up, but the street had been shattered quite impressively.

“Normally, someone would have raised the alarm, and we’d have put out the fire quick. But it happened late last night, and by the time we got one of the mages out here, it was too hot.”

Erin glanced at Relc, and the Drake shrugged.

“Low-level mages. And there’s not much call for water magic specialization around here. We had to let the fire burn out and clear the rest of the street before it spread.”

It was destruction. To starve the fire of flames, the Watch and firefighting teams had smashed and cleared the rest of the stalls, shoving the wood splinters out of the way.

It hurt Erin’s heart to see. And it hurt even more because the street wasn’t empty. She could see Drakes and Gnolls, shopkeepers staring forlornly at their abandoned goods. It hurt her heart, because she could see some of them were crying.

Scaly or furry they might be, but their tears looked the same.

Relc stared grimly at the burnt-out street. He spoke quietly to Erin.

“Everyone’s saying it’s a Human that did it.”

“Really?”

Probably everyone was saying that, or at least everyone Relc talked to. Humans might have other opinions. But it probably was a Human, at least in Erin’s mind. She couldn’t see Drakes being dumb enough to burn down part of their city by accident, and Gnolls were highly flammable. And the Antinium—

No. There were already Workers picking through the rubble, slowly and methodically clearing away the destroyed part of the street. They wouldn’t have set a fire.

“Why would a Human do it, though?”

Relc glanced at Erin.

“Oh, it was the mystery thief. Someone caught them last night, and they started a fire to get away.”

“How? With a match or…?”

“A what? They used fire magic. A spell.”

Oh. Obviously. Erin’s eyes were caught by an older Drake trying to salvage something from her shop. She spoke distantly.

“Isn’t there a way to track this thief down? Magic? Or…some kind of Skill?”

Relc shook his head.

“This thief has some good magic—and not just the fire magic. A magical item, maybe. And high-level [Guardsmen] do get tracking skills, but almost all of the Watch here are former soldiers. We’ve got more levels in combat classes than our current class. We did have one [Guardsman] with high levels, but that was Klbkch..”

The comment hit Erin in the gut, and for a second, Relc looked guilty. But he didn’t apologize.

“We’re working on it. No one’s happy. Normally, we’d have caught the thief, but there are so many of you damn Humans in the city—no offense.”

Erin took offense, but she let it drop. Relc wasn’t happy. He was staring at his damaged city with narrowed eyes, and she didn’t have anything to say. Certainly nothing to defend the thief. So instead she changed the subject.

“I…haven’t seen you around the inn lately.”

Relc shrugged again indifferently.

“Too many damn Goblins around. I’d clean them up, but apparently that’s not allowed.”

Erin glanced sideways at Relc. The Drake met her eyes and then went back to studying the street.

“They’re not all bad, you know.”

He snorted.

“You think the little freaks you’ve been feeding are good? I hear they’ve been fighting a war with the rest of their tribe—when they’re not scaring travellers and stealing their goods.”

For a moment, Erin felt a lurch of panic and fear in her chest.

“You’re not—not going to have to hunt them down are you?”

“I don’t really care. So long as we don’t get orders, we’ll leave them alone if they stay clear of the city. Goblins are part of the wild. If you get rid of too many, the bigger monsters don’t have anything to snack on.”

“Oh. Um, t—”

“Don’t thank me. I just don’t feel like doing more than I have to for my job, that’s all.”

Silence. Erin stared at the ground. Relc’s eyes narrowed as he watched the Workers slowly sweeping down the street.

“They don’t even care Klb died.”

“Yeah. They, um, don’t seem to care about death. It’s not their fault.”

“I know. They’re bugs. But Klbkch was special.”

“He was.”

Yet the Workers didn’t mourn him, and that hurt Erin—but it hurt Relc more. She thought the Workers had their reasons, but Relc just kept speaking, louder, his tail lashing faster.

“Not just because he was a guard, y’know? He was different. He had a name. I couldn’t believe it when he introduced himself. And he’s the only Antinium I’ve ever heard of with a level higher than 10. He was special.”

Erin was silent. She stared at the large Drake and saw his chest heaving with emotion. The Drake’s fist tightened on the shaft of his spear.

“But they don’t care. They talk about Klb as if he’s just gone off somewhere. As if his death never happened. Even the Queen didn’t put up much of a fuss.”

Erin thought about the massive Antinium Soldiers marching down the street and taking her to meet the Queen.

“You think so?”

Relc eyed Erin darkly.

“You’re not dead, so I’d say she took it well. She kept talking about ‘time lost’ and ‘needless valuable resources expended’ when she talked with the Captain. But never about Klbkch.”

The Drake’s head bowed. He stabbed his spear into the paving stones, and the stones cracked and shifted around the tip of his spear. He leaned on it, staring darkly down at the ground.

“No one cares.”

“I care.”

“I know. But you’re different.”

For a while, the two stood still, awkwardly, alone rather than together. Erin’s heart hurt. But though the Human thing to do would be to pat Relc on the back or say something meaningless, she knew he didn’t want anything from her.

He still hated her. Or if he didn’t hate her, he blamed her.

And she would say nothing against that.

At last, Relc shifted his weight and pulled his spear out of the street. He looked down at Erin.

“By the way—and not that I care too much, but you should know—there’s a new Prognugator in the city.”

The word sounded familiar. Erin frowned.

“A what?”

“It was what Klbkch was. Don’t ask me what it means. It’s some important role in the Antinium Hive. Their war-leaders were called that—but Klbkch told me it’s deeper. They’re pretty much like Watch Captains, though. For their entire Hive.”

The idea of the Antinium needing any kind of policing sounded ridiculous to Erin. She couldn’t imagine them doing anything criminal, but then she remembered Klbkch herding the Workers like cattle. Maybe a Prognugator was like some sort of sheepdog, only with people.

“Okay. Is he going to be part of the Watch?”

Unexpectedly, Relc frowned.

“I hope not. Not if I have anything to say about it. I think this one will stay in the Hive.”

“Okay. Why are you telling me, then?”

Relc hesitated.

“He looks—familiar. Just don’t freak out, okay?”

“Sure.”

The Drake scratched at the spines on his head.

“Right. Well, I’ve got to go back to work. Oh—that’s right. I’m supposed to give you a warning.”

“A warning?”

“Yeah. Apparently you got into a fight with a bunch of adventurers, right? Beat them up and stole their stuff?”

Oh. Erin felt like slapping herself. Of course.

“Um, yes. I did. But they were attacking—”

“The damn Goblins. Whatever. Don’t worry; I’m not going to arrest you. I’m just giving you a warning. I also hear you’ve got a pet skeleton.”

“Yes. His name’s Toren. Uh—”

“I don’t care. It sounds creepy, but whatever you Humans like is fine by me. Just keep him out of the city. I just needed to give you a warning.”

“Not to do it again?”

Relc looked surprised. Then he grinned.

“Oh, no. When we heard about three Human adventurers getting their tails kicked by an Innkeeper, some Workers, and a few Goblins, we laughed our scales off. We don’t care about what happens to those Humans. Just keep the skeleton away, and if that crazy [Necromancer] tries raising any more bodies, stop him.”

“You’re not going to do anything? Really?”

This time, the Drake lowered his voice, glancing around surreptitiously.

“Maybe if we had time—but we don’t. The Watch is overwhelmed right now. Those damn adventurers keep disappearing into the ruins, and we’ve had to patrol the area to catch all the things that come crawling out of there.”

Relc made a face and twirled his spear in one hand. Erin’s stomach decided it was time to start lurching. She would have preferred it stay on ‘bleh’.

“Things? Like…what kind of things?”

“Squiggly things. Lots of white tentacles and flesh. Disgusting. We think there’s some kind of brood monster in there, but no one who goes in that far has come out to tell us what it is. And the rest of the cowards are just clearing the rooms one at a time.”

Relc sighed, muttered a bit about Humans and adventurers in general, and glanced at the sky.

“I’ve got to get back there.”

“Oh. Okay. I’ll see you around.”

“Maybe.”

The Drake raised one hand in farewell as he trotted off. Erin watched him go. Her eyes turned back to the ruined street.

Misery and devastation. It wasn’t hers, but she still felt for the people affected by the fire. A thief and the ruins.

None of these things were her problem. But they were her problem because she lived here. Not by choice, but Erin felt like the city was suffering. Suffering, and she wondered what it would take to heal.

At the very least, Erin wouldn’t get her pillows today. Not unless a certain Gnoll had any in stock.



——



“I am sorry, Erin Solstice, but everything is chaos, no? I was lucky not to lose my goods, but many have lost all. Pillows must wait. Come back another day, please.”

Krshia barely had the time to spare as she talked seriously with a bunch of angry Gnoll and Drake shopkeepers. The merchants of Market Street were gathered together in some sort of conclave, and Krshia was one of the more influential—and vocal—shopkeepers in the crowd.

Erin left them to it, especially because she was getting a lot of casually hostile glances. It was completely understandable that the shopkeepers were angry, and there were other things she could do. Like talk with friends.

——

“What?”

Selys had to shout above the clamor in the packed Adventurer’s Guild. She and the other three receptionist Drakes were trying to deal with multiple adventurers at once while the room was full of arguments, minor scuffles, spirited dialogue, and not least, the clank of countless weapons and armor rubbing together.

The female Drake shook her head as Erin repeated her question.

“I can’t, Erin. We’re all working overtime as it is. All the adventurers coming through—excuse me, the Human with the red hair and face-thing?”

Several adventurers looked up, and the mustached adventurer stepped forwards, holding a bag of dripping somethings. He looked so amazingly hurt that Erin bet no one had ever referred to his mustache as a ‘face-thing’. Selys gestured impatiently to the side.

“Give that to Warsh, please. The Drake over there? The one with yellow scales? Thank you.”

Selys turned back to Erin and shook her head. The other girl nodded, tried not to touch the shouting adventurer covered in blood and…guts, and made her way out of the building.

It was completely fine. Selys had a lot to do, after all, and the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor was never meant to deal with the huge influx of treasure seekers. It was too bad. But it was just—it was just—

——

“It’s just that I don’t know what I should be doing, you know?”

Erin complained as she moved a knight on the chess board and stole one of Pawn’s rooks. The Antinium made a sound of dismay but kept staring at the board as Erin chattered away.

“I get that Krshia and Selys are busy. And so is Relc, although we barely talk and he hates my guts. But what should I do? I mean, obviously I’m running the inn, but I feel like there’s something else I should do. Something…useful besides cooking, eating, and paying for pillows.”

Carefully, Pawn moved one of his knights forward. Instantly, Erin took it with a bishop, trading the pieces. It wasn’t a good exchange—as bishops were technically worth about the same strategically as knights, but it did open up Pawn’s king for a lovely attack by Erin’s queen.

“I mean, what should I do? I need money, but it’s not as if this inn is hopping at the best of times. And I need several hundred gold pieces. That’d take years. The only way I might get that much money in one go is to become an adventurer, but I don’t really want to stab stuff or have my insides yanked out through my nose.”

Pawn desperately tried to search for a winning strategy on his invaded side of the chess board. He found one—the same strategy that would end up in a checkmate eight moves down. Erin had noticed that three moves ago.

Delicately, the Antinium moved a pawn forwards and spoke.

“I am not sure I have any advice to give you, Erin Solstice. I am not experienced in the ways of this world.”

“You probably know more than I do.”

“It may be so, but my knowledge extends mainly to my Hive. I was not I until very recently. Thus, my awareness is only now expanding.”

“I get it.”

Erin sighed, took one of Pawn’s pieces, and waited for him to take her rook.

“I just wish I didn’t feel this way.”

“Which way is this?”

Pawn took her rook. Erin took his queen.

“So useless.”

A faint groan escaped the Antinium Worker. He studied the board and then shook his head.

“I have lost.”

The other Workers nodded in agreement as they stared at the board. The pairs that were playing glanced up and stared silently at Pawn’s board before returning to their games.

“Good game. You want to play another round?”

Pawn nodded, and the two players began rearranging the board. It was their fourth game, and they’d been playing long enough that the sun was already fading behind the mountaintops.

It was fun to play. But Erin had the same feeling she was trying to express to Pawn. It was fun to play, but she never lost.

That was okay. She was, if not as incredible as an International Master or even a Grandmaster, at an exceptionally high level of play back home. The love of the game and teaching new players was enough—and they were very good despite having picked up the game a week ago. Yet chess…if the world were decided by chess games, it would be so much easier for her.

“I just wish I could do something important, that’s all. Something useful.”

“Was Erin important back in her world?”

“What? No. Not at all. I was just a girl who played chess. Heck, I wasn’t even in college yet. I was trying to save up money for that.”

“Then the Erin of now is surely an improvement as she is both an [Innkeeper] and one who teaches chess. I fail to understand the problem.”

“Well, yeah, but—”

A few tables down, Rags snorted loudly. Erin looked over. The Goblin stared silently at her and then reached over and poked the Worker’s king with one finger. It toppled over.

“Hey! That’s really rude!”

Rags made a face as Erin glared at her. But the Worker she’d been playing bowed its head towards Erin.

“This one had lost the game. This one apologizes for time wasted.”

“It’s not your fault. Even if the game’s nearly over, you’re the one who decides that. Knocking over someone else’s king is rude. Got it?”

The Worker bowed his head, but Rags just scowled. Erin amped up her death-glare, and Rags reluctantly muttered something.

It was pretty much the only problem that reared its head when Erin had everyone playing chess. In the hierarchy of skill within the inn, Erin was the undisputed champion. After her came Pawn and Rags, with Pawn being the better player, but only just. Below them were various Workers who could play decent games, but Rags was never quite happy unless the little Goblin was playing Erin.

It was an issue of arrogance, and Erin remembered what it was like—being impatient at having to play mediocre players. But Rags was still a rank novice by Erin’s standards, and rudeness in chess was something she wouldn’t tolerate.

But still, Rags hadn’t played Erin yet tonight. Reluctantly, Erin looked at Pawn.

“Sorry, but do you think—?”

The Antinium was already shifting from her table. His courteous nature never failed to surprise Erin. She sighed as Rags jumped off of her chair and marched over to her table.

“Okay, let’s play. But if you touch my king, I’m going to chop you up, got it?”

The Goblin didn’t answer. She was already rearranging her pieces.

Sighing exasperatedly, Erin waved a hand.

“Toren! I’ll have some water.”

The skeleton who had been moving around the room with a huge bowl of Acid Flies turned and nodded. He disappeared into the kitchen and reemerged with a tall glass of water in his bony hand.

There were some benefits to having a skeleton waiter. Not least of which was that Erin could devote all of her time to playing chess. She sat back as Rags studied the board and waited for the first move.

The Goblin played unusual strategies all the time, which made her a delight to duel. By contrast, Pawn had the fundamental moves memorized and played solid games. It won him more games, but Erin had to admit she admired the Goblin’s daring in her aggressive tactics.

Rags’ fingers closed around a pawn, and then the Goblin froze. Her pointed ears twitched, and she stared at the door.

Erin looked up. A few seconds of silence passed, and then she heard someone knocking politely on the door.

“Come in!”

The door slowly swung open. Erin caught a glimpse of a familiar black body and four arms and smiled. Another Worker to play with. But then her thoughts hit a snag. Workers couldn’t leave the city without Pawn. They were—

The Antinium stepped fully into the inn, and Erin froze. She was dreaming. Rags had stabbed her in the chest, and Erin was dying on the table. She’d had a heart attack—or a stroke, and this was the last thing she saw before she died. It had to be that. She had to be dreaming.

Because the Antinium who walked into the inn could not be who she thought he was.

On first glance, he looked like any other Antinium. He had four arms, antennae, large multifaceted eyes, and the two curiously segmented legs all lined with brown-black exoskeleton. That was normal.

But this Antinium was different. He was built slimmer than the Workers, and his carapace might have been a shade darker. But more than that, he resembled someone Erin knew. In every small detail, in every part of his body, from the way he stood to the two swords and two daggers at his side, he looked exactly like—

“Klbkch?”

The Antinium turned his head, and Erin felt her heart stop for a moment. He bowed his head to her and approached.

“Good evening. Am I speaking to the [Innkeeper] known as Erin Solstice?”

His voice was exactly the same as Klbkch’s. Erin wrestled with words around a tongue that had stopped working.

“Yes—yes I—are you—?”

The Antinium nodded.

“Allow me to introduce myself. I am not Klbkch. Please refrain from making this error in judgment at any point in the future. My name is Ksmvr of the Antinium of Liscor. I serve my Queen as Prognugator. I have come on business of the Hive.”

It wasn’t Klbkch. But it was. Erin was struck dumb for words. He stood like Klbkch. His swords were the same as Klbkch’s, although the steel was just that instead of the silvery metal. Even the way he walked and talked was—

She was trying to come up with a response and not start crying at the same time while she digested his words.

Ksmvr paused and then nodded.

“I understand my resemblance to my predecessor has caused issues. I apologize for any confusion.”

“Oh, no—”

Erin wanted to say ‘it’s nothing’, but it would be a lie. She sat still, rigid in her seat as Rags stared hard at Ksmvr. All the other Workers were frozen in their seats. But Pawn—

Ksmvr looked around the room. His silent, studying gaze found each Worker as the other Antinium stared at the floor. Then he spotted Pawn. The Worker hesitated and half-rose from his seat.

Instantly, the air rang as Ksmvr’s blades shot out of their sheathes. The Antinium held all four arms on guard and pointed one of his daggers at Pawn.

“Remain still, Worker.”

Erin gaped. Pawn began trembling, and the other Workers instantly began moving out of the way. Ksmvr advanced, swords at the ready.

“Wait. What are you doing?”

Ksmvr’s head moved sideways a fraction as he spoke. But his blades never shifted an inch.

“I have come to ascertain the state of the Worker which refers to itself as ‘Pawn’. I will bring this Worker back into the city with me. I apologize for any inconvenience.”

He stood over Pawn and raised one sword just under the tip of the other Antinium’s chin.

“Stand. Make no sudden movements. You will be questioned.”

Meekly, Pawn did as he was instructed. Erin was staring, horrified. It seemed like—

“Wait, I don’t understand. Why are you taking him? Has he done something wrong?”

Ksmvr paused. He seemed reluctant to explain.

“…It is common knowledge that those Antinium who refer to themselves as individuals or have names are subject to fits of violence and unpredictability. More, I cannot say, but my role is to judge such errant individuals and terminate them if necessary.”

The casual way he said it made Erin’s blood run cold. And now that she was thinking again, she saw Pawn was trembling as Ksmvr held his sword under his chin.

“Wait a second. Wait a second. I know Pawn. He hasn’t done anything wrong, and I’ve been playing chess with him every day for the last few weeks. Why are you taking him now?”

Again, Ksmvr paused before replying.

“The Hive within Liscor has been in—disarray. My appointment to this position was out of necessity. All shall be restored to order shortly. Until then, I carry out my roles.”

He looked at Pawn.

“We will return to the Hive. Any actions will be met with appropriate punishment. Is that clear?”

Pawn nodded. He slowly moved with Ksmvr’s blade poking into his back. The Prognugator would have pushed him out the door, but Erin was suddenly in the way.

“Hold it.”

“Please move aside, Erin Solstice.”

“You haven’t explained anything. Pawn did nothing wrong. He has a name, but I was the one who gave it to him. What do you mean you’ll terminate him? And—and why do you look like Klbkch? What’s a Prognugator?”

“I am on business of my Hive. I cannot answer your questions. Please move aside.”

“No.”

Pawn spoke. His voice trembled with nerves as he spoke to Erin.

“Please, Miss Solstice. This is a matter of the Antinium. I knew it would come. Do not interfere—”

Ksmvr moved. His sword flashed, and Pawn screeched, clutching a severed antenna.

“The Worker will remain silent.”

Quaking, Pawn clutched at his bleeding stump and shut up. Ksmvr prodded him forwards, blade tips sinking into the Worker’s exoskeleton, but now Erin was right in front of him.

“That’s enough. Pawn is my guest. I won’t let you take him.”

Ksmvr stared at Erin expressionlessly.

“Interfering with my duties is a crime.”

“You cut him for speaking. I’m not letting you anywhere near him unless you explain things. No—better yet, I want to go with him.”

“That is unacceptable. Move aside.”

“No.”

“I will not request twice. Be warned—”

“I said no. Didn’t you hear me?”

“I did. Very well.”

Erin didn’t see the Antinium’s hand move. But she felt something solid strike her so hard she saw stars and tasted blood. Erin stumbled away and heard a furious clatter.

Toren rushed at Ksmvr, barehanded except for a spoon it had picked up from a table. Ksmvr turned his head calmly, and two of his arms moved.

The hilt of his sword and dagger smashed into the skeleton so hard that the undead construct paused. Ksmvr’s arm blurred again, and suddenly, Toren was headless.

With one leg, the Antinium kicked the skeleton across the room, scattering Toren’s bones. He turned calmly back to Pawn.

“Move. Walk slowly without deviation.”

“W-wait.”

Erin could only see stars. And her jaw was already swelling, but she still staggered towards Ksmvr. She stopped as two daggers pointed her way.

“Your interference has been noted. Your complaints will be heard by my Queen once she has completed her business. Regrettably, she is indisposed at the moment, but you may request an audience at a later date.”

“I won’t—let you take Pawn. You don’t have to do this.”

Ksmvr paused and then shook his head. He spoke without inflection.

“My position is temporary. But any possibility of a Worker becoming Aberration must be dealt with swiftly. Interfere and I will be forced to consider you an enemy.”

He opened the door. Pawn meekly walked through it. Ksmvr paused, one hand on the door. He nodded at Erin as the girl stared at him, horrified.

“Good day to you. My apologies for the interruption.”

The door closed behind him softly.

——

Erin stared at the door for a full minute, thoughts whirling, before she moved. She paused only long enough to make sure Toren was reassembling himself. Rags was squatting next to the skeleton, offering it bones and watching with interest as the skeleton pieced itself together one part at a time.

She had no time to wait for the skeleton. Erin ran into the kitchen and reemerged with a frying pan, the biggest one she had. She flung the door open and made it two steps outside before the Workers grabbed her.

“Let—go of me!”

“Innkeeper Solstice must not interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not.”

“Get off! I’m going to save Pawn! Let go!”

Erin struggled, but three Workers had her in grips like steel, and the others were surrounding them. They spoke—a group speaking as one.

“The Prognugator must not be disturbed. The Prognugator will slay all who interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not die. Innkeeper Solstice must not die.”

Erin struggled. The Workers didn’t want to hurt her. At last, she managed to wriggle out of their grips. She broke free of the mob and ran down the hill towards Liscor.

She made it several miles before the Workers caught up. They weren’t fast, but they didn’t tire. They held her.

“Innkeeper Solstice must not.”

“Why?”

She shouted it at the Worker who’d caught her. He flinched, but she was beyond caring.

“What is that Ksmvr guy doing? Why does he look exactly like Klbkch!”

The Worker hesitated and then shook his head.

“It is forbidden to speak of Hive matters to outsiders. This one may not speak.”

Erin snapped. She took a deep breath and shouted in the Worker’s face.

“I am your chess teacher! I am Innkeeper Solstice, and I order you to tell me!”

He hesitated. Erin grabbed him by his cool, smooth exoskeleton.

“Tell me!”

The Worker hesitated. He looked at the other Workers surrounding him, and she saw them agree almost as one. It looked hesitantly back at Erin.

“This one—these ones believe the individual known as Pawn will be interrogated.”

“Interrogated? Why?”

“To determine if the individual known as Pawn is Aberration.”

“And if he is?”

“He will be executed.”

Erin’s blood went cold. She struggled, but the Worker held her.

“That’s crazy! Why? What did he do wrong?”

“Those who are Aberration kill. They are Individual and reject the Hive. They destroy.”

“But Pawn isn’t violent!”

Erin stopped and stared at the Worker.

“He isn’t. You know it. I know it. He hasn’t done anything. So he’s not an Aberration, right?”

The Worker hesitated again and stared at his comrades.

“It may be so.”

“It is so!”

“No Worker who has become individual has ever not been Aberration.”

“None?”

Erin stared at the Worker. He and the others shook their heads.

“Pawn is different, though. He is. So—that Ksmvr guy will let him go, right?”

They hesitated.

“Right?”

“If the individual known as Pawn is not Aberration, he may be allowed freedom within the Hive.”

Erin was no good at reading Workers’ expressions. But even she could tell that the Workers didn’t think this was very likely. She stared at them.

“I’m going to stop it.”

“It is too late. The Hive will be sealed while the individual known as Pawn is questioned. Innkeeper Solstice will not be able to enter.”

“I must.”

“It is impossible. Innkeeper Solstice must go back to her inn.”

“I’ve got to go. I must.”

“It is impossible.”

“I must go.”

“It is impossible.”

“I—”

——

In the end, the Workers left. And they left Erin behind. She stood, holding the heavy frying pan in the middle of the plains, and watched the Workers slowly trudge across the dark plains towards Liscor.

She wanted to run after them. But they’d convinced her—finally convinced her—that even if she followed them there would be nothing she could do. They would enter the Hive, but apparently it would be sealed by the fearsome Antinium Soldiers, who would kill her on sight if she intruded. And Ksmvr would be deep within the Hive, interrogating Pawn for signs of Aberration, whatever that meant.

Erin would never reach him. So she stayed and felt like she was betraying Pawn. But she would never reach him. All Erin could do was pray.

Slowly, Erin walked back towards her inn. Her mind was full of confusion, fear, panic, a whirlwind of emotions. But those thoughts vanished from her head when she heard the shouting.

It came from her inn. Erin stared up the hill and saw a group of dark shapes standing outside the inn. They were yelling something.

“Goblin!”

“More of them over there! Kill them!”

“Watch it! One of them knows magic!”

“Get it off! There’s a skeleton too! Toss me my sword!”

Erin ran. She charged up the hill as fast as she could. Her inn was lit from the inside, the lamps Toren had lit the only light besides the stars. In the glow from the windows, she could see seven—maybe more people—striking out at Rags and her group of Goblins.

They’d been caught unawares, but the adventurers were already pulling out weapons. One of them—a massive Minotaur—pulled a humongous battle axe from his back and swung it with a roar of fury. Rags dodged the massive blade as it bit into the soil with a shrill cry of alarm. She swung her short sword, but a mage in robes pointed, and the Goblin had to dive or be consumed by the flames that shot from the mage’s staff.

“Hey!”

Erin didn’t even bother with words. As the adventurers charged, she raised the frying pan and hurled it as hard as she could at the Minotaur. The pan flew straight at the massive bull-man’s head, courtesy of Erin’s [Unerring Throw] Skill.

The Minotaur blinked as the pan flew at him. His hand shot up, grabbed the cast-iron skillet by the handle, and halted it in midair.

Erin froze. The Goblins took one look at the Minotaur holding the frying pan and ran. One of the adventurers raised a bow, but Erin ran forwards and kicked him in the stomach. He doubled over.

Suddenly, Erin was alone and surrounded by adventurers. They stared at her, confused. One of them—a girl with pointy ears—held up her hand and stopped the other adventurers from attacking. The Minotaur stared at Erin, curious.

He’d stopped the flying frying pan of justice with one hand. Erin gulped and thought fast. Her attack had failed, although Rags and her friends were clear. So that left words.

“Hey! What do you think you’re doing?”

The adventurers stared incredulously at her.

“What do you think you’re doing?”

“I own this place! What are you doing attacking my guests?”

“Guests?”

A guy with a long mustache gaped at Erin. He stared at the fleeing Goblins.

“They’re Goblins! And there’s a skeleton in there!”

He pointed at Toren, who was lying disassembled inside of Erin’s inn.

“They’re my guests. And that’s my skeleton you just beat up! This is my inn, and no one kills Goblins around here! Didn’t you read the sign? Does anyone read the damn sign?”

The adventurers, or rather, the Silver-rank adventuring group known as the Horns of Hammerad, stared at each other in confusion. The night sky made everything nearly impossible to see. Gerial stared at Erin and then looked around.

“There’s a sign?”

——

Erin sat in her inn, staring at the group of men, women, and one Elf and Minotaur as they sat awkwardly across from her. All of them stared alternatively at her and at Toren as the skeleton walked around the inn, cleaning up the Workers’ dishes and the chess sets.

They weren’t about to say anything else, so Erin spoke.

“Let me get this straight. You guys are an adventuring group, and you just happened to drop by.”

“That’s right. We knew there was an inn in the area, and we wondered if it was still open.”

That came from the Elf-girl, sitting closest to Erin. She was distractingly beautiful, with features that were literally nothing like anything Erin had seen in her world. She smiled politely at Erin, and the girl had to prevent herself from gaping.

Erin looked at the Minotaur instead. He was also something she’d never seen, but she wasn’t as distracted by him. Rather, his bullish head and rippling muscles made her feel like she was talking to a cow that had decided to start working out and was walking around on two legs.

Which, when you got down to it, was pretty much a Minotaur.

“So you lot came here, saw the inn was full of Goblins, and decided to kill them all, right?”

The adventurers shifted in their seats. One of them shrugged.

“Well—yes.”

“Why?”

The armed men and women exchanged glances. One literally trapped a finger against her helmet and grimaced in confusion. Another—a guy in armor with a flowing mustache—shook his head.

“They’re Goblins. They’re monsters. We’re adventurers. I’m sorry Miss, but we were just doing our jobs.”

Erin knew that, but she didn’t have to like it. But they hadn’t killed any Goblins, and she’d made them explain three times already. And they were staring at her, so she decided to change topics.

“Okay. So you’re adventurers from up north. You said you had a name…?”

“The Horns of Hammerad.”

That came from the Minotaur. He was still staring at Erin curiously, but without threatening to rip her head off, which is what she sort of assumed was Minotaur behavior.

“And how did you know the inn was here?”

The man with the mustache cleared his throat awkwardly.

“We were, ah, here before.”

“I don’t remember that.”

“I believe you were out at the time.”

Ceria smiled at Erin. She nodded to the skeleton.

“But I can prove we weren’t doing anything wrong. We were here to meet a certain [Necromancer] at the time. It’s just a guess, but I’m betting you know him.”

Erin looked at Toren, and the skeleton looked inquiringly back at her. He was still wearing his sword belted to his bony waist, and the skeleton was eying the Horns of Hammerad as if it considered them to be a threat. Then she focused on the [Necromancer] part and groaned through her teeth.

Even when he was gone—Pisces! She spoke slowly, but with a growing sense of resignation.

“I might know him. This, uh, necromancer. Can you describe him?”

“He’s quite annoying.”

Erin’s head ducked.

“Right, that’s Pisces. Okay, so you know him. And you’re here. And I guess you didn’t see the sign about not killing Goblins. Mistakes were made.”

Erin sighed and tried to relax. She looked at the group of adventurers again.

“So, what do the Horns of Hammerbad want with me?”

The Minotaur’s eye twitched, but the Elf spoke again. She might be their leader, or maybe it was mustache-guy.

“We’re looking for a place to stay.”

Erin looked blank. She pointed out the window.

“The city’s that way.”

“Yes, but every tavern, inn, and home is full to the rafters with adventurers. There’s nowhere to sleep—not even in a shed. So we came here.”

Erin still looked blank.

“Why?”

“This…is an inn, correct? Don’t you have rooms to rent?”

“What? Oh. Oh. Yeah, I’ve got them. Tons of them. All empty.”

Silence. The Horns of Hammerad exchanged a glance. Ceria coughed politely and smiled at Erin.

“Could we perhaps stay here? I promise you we won’t cause any trouble, and we have plenty of coin.”

That had a hollow ring to it after the earlier incident. Erin thought it over, chewing at her lip.

“I don’t like people who attack Goblins. They’re my guests, and you chased them off.”

This comment seemed to seriously annoy the Minotaur. He leaned forwards, snorting, but mustache-guy pushed him back in his chair. From his seat, the Minotaur snapped at Erin.

“Those creatures are scum. They should be exterminated.”

Erin’s brows snapped together. The other Horns of Hammerad groaned, and the Elf kicked backwards, hitting the Minotaur’s shin. All that happened was that she winced.

Mustache-guy smoothed his mustaches and looked concerned. He spoke to Erin, attempting a charming smile.

“I assure you, Mistress, um, Erin. This was all a mistake. If we’d seen the sign, we wouldn’t have attacked.”

“Hm.”

Erin eyed the adventurers. She still wasn’t happy, not least because they were in her way while she was still thinking about Pawn. She made up her mind rapidly.

“Look, you didn’t kill the Goblins. So I guess I’ll forget that. But if you stay here, you will either obey my rules or you can sleep outside. Got it?”

All of the Horns of Hammerad nodded at once. Only the Minotaur did not. Erin stared at him.

“How about you, bull-guy?”

His eyebrow twitched, and everyone else in the inn winced. The Minotaur stared at Erin hard, but she didn’t look away.

“Everyone else seems like they’ll be okay, but are you going to obey my rules, or do I have to kick you out?”

The thought of her kicking the Minotaur out was ridiculous, but Erin was too angry to care. The Minotaur stared hard at her, blew out air exasperatedly, and finally nudged the Elf-girl aside as she silently kicked him under the table.

“Upon my honor, I promise. I will not attack any of your guests unless provoked.”

That seemed like it was all Erin was going to get. She nodded.

“Okay, then. In that case, I have a few rooms upstairs. Enough for all of you. But I don’t have any pillows.”

The Horns of Hammerad smiled in relief. The Elf spoke to Erin.

“That’s fine. We can make do.”

Erin nodded and stood up. Her mind was blank. What were you supposed to say at times like this? Guests. She had guests. She picked a direction and put her mouth on autopilot.

“Your rooms are upstairs. Go ahead and pick whatever one you want. We might have to get two beds for cow-guy, but it should be fine.”

She pointed at the kitchen.

“Breakfast is in the morning. There’s no alcohol, but I’ve got plenty of food. There’s an outhouse outside—just be careful that you don’t walk into a monster. If you see a huge moving rock, shut the door and stay quiet. Don’t go into the kitchen if you want something to eat—there are jars of acid lying around. Don’t drink anything green in general. No killing Goblins, the skeleton works for me, and if you see an ant-guy with two swords and two daggers, hit him and make sure he doesn’t go anywhere. Got it?”

The Horns of Hammerad hesitated, then nodded. Erin waited and then shrugged.

“That’s about it. I’ll make some food if you want anything.”

She stomped out of the common room and into the kitchen. Bemused, the adventurers watched her go. For a few seconds, they heard her talking to the skeleton, and then Erin walked back out. She pointed at the adventurers.

“One more thing. Do any of you play chess?”

Again, all of the adventurers had to exchange glances of confusion. At last, the mustached man looked back at Erin and raised one eyebrow.

“What’s ‘chess’?”

Erin sighed.





Hollowstone Deceivers (Rock Crabs) by Enuryn





1.50


Erin dreamt of swords flashing, of cannonballs exploding around her, and of blood. Rivers of blood.

Klbkch stood in front of Erin and asked if she were ready. She looked at him as he bled in her arms. His mandibles opened, and he rasped into her ear.

“I obey my Queen.”

She shook her head. Dream Erin pointed and showed Klbkch a massive chess piece sitting on a hill.

“The King. It’s about the King. The king is smart. He—”

She was no longer holding Klbkch. Instead, Erin sat and watched as a body fell to the ground and oil burned around her. A dead Goblin’s face stared at her, and she woke in a cold sweat to see Toren standing in one corner of her room.

It was better. Infinitely better than seeing the dead. Erin still threw her pillow at him. It struck him in the face—not hard, but loud enough to startle someone.

“Whu?”

It came from outside the kitchen. Erin was immediately seized by panic. She looked around for her frying pan and then remembered.

She had guests.

Blearily, Erin kicked her bedding into one corner of the kitchen and walked out. It was still close to dawn, but surprisingly, someone was awake.

Ceria blinked several times at Erin and nodded her head. It seemed the Elf mage was an early riser, but even she was half-asleep.

“Whu?”

She repeated the word. Erin swayed on her feet.

“Hrgh.”

“Mm.”

Conversation done, Erin stumbled back into the kitchen to make food. Toren stood by, handing her pan, spatulas, and various food items as she pointed and grunted. Breakfast was scrambled eggs, toasted bread, bacon from some animal, and sliced cheese.

It was unnatural how she could make a proper breakfast, but Erin wasn’t thinking about that at the moment. Her hands moved automatically as she thought about her dream.

It had meant something. And for some reason, even though Erin had been dreaming about death and battle, she’d been thinking about chess. She always thought about chess, even when she was asleep.

Still caught in the last fragments of her dream, Erin muttered the words.

“The king…the king is smart. He uses something. His head?”

Erin scratched at her own head, wondering where that line had come from. Well, obviously it was about chess. But had she heard it somewhere? She felt like it was important.

The bacon was finished and sizzling. Erin picked the fried strips of meat out of the pan, wincing at the spot of oil that landed on her arm.

“Ow. Ow. Ow!”

Too much oil. Erin had forgotten. It really got hot when you heated it up—

The smell of burning flesh. Erin paused and looked around. A dead Goblin Chieftain lay on the floor.

The slice of bacon slipped from her tongs. Nimbly, Toren dove and caught the bit of meat and delicately put it back on the plate. Erin blinked and came back to life.

“Oh—thanks.”

She put a hand to her head and quickly finished frying and stacking the rest of the meat. She’d made a lot. Enough for a small army, which was what she assumed ten adventurers and a Minotaur qualified as.

But since they weren’t awake, after Erin finished with the eggs, she only made one plate for Ceria. She absentmindedly dumped bacon, eggs, and bread together, ignoring the aesthetics of eating for the substance of eating itself.

Why was she thinking of the Goblin Chieftain? Why had she had that dream? Sometimes, yes, Erin woke up sweating and crying in the middle of the night. But never had her dreams followed her out of her sleep like this.

It was a sign. A sign that Erin needed to find a better place to sleep, perhaps.

Her stomach rumbled. Another sign, indicating she was hungry. Erin stared down at the two plates that were as close to an American breakfast as she knew and smiled. Ceria probably would like this, especially with blue juice. Too late, Erin remembered she had an Elf in the other room.

“Oh no.”

Erin stared down at her meal of bacon and scrambled eggs. She couldn’t go out with this. Desperately, she scrambled around, looking for anything that remotely resembled produce. It was so hard to keep vegetables in the inn because she didn’t have a refrigerator!

She found a head of lettuce and some tomatoes. Feverishly, Erin fried more eggs and added it to some toasted bread. That would have to do. Hopefully, Ceria ate eggs. Were Elves vegetarian or vegan?



——



Ceria stared blearily at the table, trying not to fall asleep. She wasn’t a morning person. People expected half-Elves to rise with the dawn and frolic in the dewdrops and flowers or some such nonsense. But Ceria had lived too long among Humans and other species to like getting up early, and she didn’t frolic.

An enticing smell was coming from the kitchens along with much banging about. Ceria tried not to listen. She was concentrating on a spell.

“[Illumination]. No—perhaps I’m doing it wrong?”

She should have the spell mastered, but it was giving her trouble. [Illumination] was an advanced version of the [Light] spell Ryoka had learned, and technically, it was only Tier 2 magic. But in truth, its complexity was around Tier 3. Possibly even Tier 4 in scope. Normally, Ceria wouldn’t have bothered learning it, but the spell could illuminate over a hundred meters around the caster by shedding orbs of light. It was perfect for dungeons.

“And of course, it’s up to the Wistram mage to do it. Is it a hard spell? Yes! Then let the half-Elf do it! Don’t get any of the other mages. Ceria’s got it covered!”

Ceria growled and slapped the spellbook in front of her shut. She was hungry, and now that she smelled breakfast, she really couldn’t concentrate.

Right on time, someone exited the kitchen holding two big plates full of food. Ceria brightened—

And nearly blew the skeleton’s head off when she saw it. The undead creature paused and stared at Ceria’s wand as the mage caught herself. It had one arm cocked to throw the plate at her head.

“Toren! Stop that!”

Someone smacked the skeleton in the back of the head, making it stumble and nearly drop its burden. Ceria saw the strange [Innkeeper] glare at the skeleton and point at the table where she sat.

Quickly, Ceria lowered the glowing wand as Erin approached.

“Ooh, is that a wand?”

The half-Elf blinked at Erin. She paused and then smiled ruefully.

“Yes it is. Would you like to see?”

Erin peered excitedly at the long, slender piece of wood. It didn’t look carved like the ones she’d seen in certain movies. Rather, it looked like it had been plucked off a tree and stripped of all branches. The wood was a pale white tinged with the faintest hint of green. All in all, it was ordinary except for the pale, blue-white wisps of light flickering around the tip.

“That is so cool!”

Ceria was mildly taken aback by Erin’s enthusiasm. She held out the wand to Erin, much to the other girl’s surprise.

Erin hesitated, her hands itching to hold the wand. She glanced at Ceria.

“Is it really okay if I touch it?”

Ceria had to smile.

“It’s not that fragile. Go ahead. And it’s not that expensive. Sort of expensive, but the real thing is far, uh, ‘cooler’.”

Reverently, Erin ran her fingers along the wand. It didn’t feel that different, to Erin’s slight disappointment. The wood was smooth and polished, but it didn’t feel special. Her fingertips touched the wand’s tip.

“Ah! Cold!”

Ceria snatched the wand back, and Erin stared at her hands. The fingers that had brushed the wand tip were white, and frost had coated the very tips. The Elf tossed the wand on the table and grabbed Erin’s hand.

“Are you alright?”

Behind Erin, Toren’s glowing eyes flashed menacingly. The skeleton took a step forwards and met an elbow to the ribcage from Erin. She glared at him until he retreated and then looked back at Ceria. The touch of the Elf’s skin on hers felt very light and ethereal, just like how the rest of the Elf looked. Gingerly, she pulled her hand away.

“I’m fine. Go away, Toren! Go get us something to drink.”

“I’m really sorry about that. I didn’t expect you to touch the wand tip. Have you never seen one before?”

Erin blew on her fingers and rubbed them frantically to warm them up. They were tingling horribly, but aside from the first bite of extreme cold, they seemed to be okay.

“No—sorry. I didn’t know I wasn’t supposed to touch them.”

“It was my fault. I forget how much non-mages don’t know.”

Ceria looked abashed. She held up the wand and tapped her finger close to the tip.

“All the magic of the wand is channeled through the tip. That’s why it glows or reacts depending on the spell stored. It’s also why you should never break a wand because it will trigger the spell.”

She picked up her wand and began tucking it up her sleeve. Erin saw there was an armband so that Ceria could holster the wand along her arm. She shuddered.

“Won’t that freeze your arm?”

“Oh, no. I can deactivate the magic. I only activated it because, well—your skeleton surprised me.”

Erin turned and glared at Toren, who’d reemerged from the kitchen with a jug in one hand and cups in the other.

“Sorry about that. He keeps doing that no matter how much I tell him not to.”

Silently, Ceria watched the skeleton place a cup before her and Erin and fill both up to the brim. Quite literally to the brim.

“Toren! How are we supposed to drink it like that? Don’t fill the cups all the way to the top, just almost!”

The skeleton looked abashed. Erin glared at it and then turned to Ceria. The half-Elf cautiously managed to take a drink of the sweet, pulpy liquid without spilling any. Her eyebrows lifted.

“This is good!”

“I know, right? It’s from this fruit I found around here. Anyways, here. Breakfast is served!”

So saying, Erin pushed a plate towards Ceria. The half-Elf looked down and found herself staring at scrambled eggs, toasted bread, and a spreadable cheese on the side—and for some reason, a big bowl of what looked entirely like lettuce and tomatoes. And no bacon.

She looked over and saw Erin had a plate full of eggs and bacon. Ceria’s stomach rumbled, and she wondered how she was going to correct this mistake.

“Well. This looks…lovely. Thank you for making breakfast so early, Miss Solstice. And I’m late in saying it, but good morning.”

“Oh. Thank you!”

Erin paused and then snapped her fingers.

“Oh. Wait! I know this one!”

Bemused, Ceria stared as the other girl scratched at her head. She muttered to herself and then looked at Ceria.

“Um…Elen síla lúmenn’ omentielvo? Is that right?”

The half-Elf froze, mouth open with one spoonful of eggs hovering just over her plate. Erin blinked innocently at her.

“What—what was that?”

Erin blushed.

“I was trying to say good morning in your language. Or maybe it’s just hello. Did I get it right…?”

“My language?”

“Elvish, right?”

The bit of egg slipped from Ceria’s spoon back onto her plate. Erin was getting more embarrassed by the staring, so she tried to explain.

“I once went to a Lord of the Rings chess tournament because I heard a national champion played there. People wouldn’t play me unless I could at least say ‘hello’.”

Ceria understood exactly none of what Erin had said. Her mind spinning, she put down her spoon quite calmly.

“Miss Erin, I’m not sure what you might be thinking but—I’m not an Elf.”

This time, it was Erin’s turn to stare.

“You’re not? Oh man. I just thought—”

Ceria touched the pointed tips of her ears that Erin was staring at.

“I’m not an Elf. I’m a half-Elf. And besides which, you wouldn’t see—an Elf anywhere.”

“Really? Why not?”

Erin was full of round-eyed curiosity. Mindful of her sleeping friends upstairs and because Erin seemed genuinely confused, Ceria did her best to keep her voice level and not shout.

“No one has seen an Elf for thousands of years. Tens of thousands. They all died long ago. That bit you spoke—was a joke, right?”

“Oh. Um—yes?”

Ceria watched as Erin sat back in her chair, disappointment clearly written all over her face. The conversation stalled as both young women tried to wrestle with what had been heard.

For her part, the half-Elf had to believe that bit of nonsense-language was a joke. Because if it wasn’t…

Ceria felt—amazed at Erin’s ignorance, but the nature of their conversation was familiar. She’d had the same sort of odd explaining to do, but when—?

“Well, I’m, uh, really sorry about the mix up. I just thought you looked so amazing and, um—are half-Elves like Elves? Or—or is there anything I should know?”

Awkwardly, Erin pointed at Ceria’s plate.

“I didn’t know what you people—I mean, what you could eat. If you need something special, I can get it. Anyways, we’ve got salad. Um…there are some tomato-like things I bought from the market, carrots…lots of soup. And, uh, I’ve got bread and cheese if you want to eat that.”

Ceria raised both her eyebrows in amusement.

“I can eat meat, you know.”

Again, the Human girl paused and seemed to struggle with something. Then, silently, she switched her plate with Ceria’s. The [Mage] brightened as the aroma of fried meat drifted upwards.

“So you eat meat?”

Ceria nodded happily.

“I’m not sure what you’ve heard, but my people aren’t averse to eating meat. I quite enjoy pork, for instance, especially when it’s been properly cooked. Or when it’s not.”

Erin stared at Ceria, round-eyed.

“Really? That’s so weird.”



——



When the rest of the Horns of Hammerad finally woke up, it was because they smelled the food. Adventurers, being the sort of people who were used to waking in a moment’s notice to avoid dying, generally slept in if they could help it. But they were also big fans of eating, so when the smells of cooked food finally wafted upstairs, their stomachs dragged them out of bed.

Gerial stumbled down into the common room of the inn and brightened the instant he saw what Ceria was eating. He sat down at a table, wondering if he should call for a barmaid, when he saw the skeleton march out of the kitchen.

Ceria caught the vice-captain of the Horns of Hammerad as he went for his belt dagger.

“Easy. Don’t threaten it and it won’t attack.”

Gerial paused and nodded. He let his heartbeat slow from the sudden jolt he’d received and warily let the skeleton put a heaping plate of food in front of him. The skeleton set down a cup, pointed to a jug of blue liquid on Ceria’s table, and walked back into the kitchen. Sheepishly, Gerial met Ceria’s gaze.

“Good thing you caught me. I’d forgotten—”

“Don’t worry about it. I made the same mistake earlier.”

“Good morning!”

Gerial looked up and gave Erin a smile as she bustled towards him, silverware in hand. The skeletal waiter had forgotten it, and Erin also filled up Gerial’s glass with the strange blue liquid after giving him a choice between it and water.

“Thank you for the meal, ah, Miss…”

Ceria supplied the name.

“Solstice.”

“Oh, just call me Erin. Anyways, I’ve got more food, so just shout if you need some.”

“You’re most kind. And this looks delicious.”

Erin smiled and walked off, already chatting to Sostrom and the [Ranger], Marian, from the Horns of Hammerad. Gerial eyed his plate, delighted at the glistening oil on his fat strips of bacon and the mounds of eggs and pieces of bread buried next to them.

He took his first bite and grinned at Ceria.

“Good food.”

She was already eating again.

“Isn’t it? Try the blue stuff.”

Cautiously, mindful of Ceria’s sense of humor, Gerial did. His eyes widened.

“It’s sweet!”

Ceria and the other Horns of Hammerad grinned at Gerial’s reaction. He’d already drained his cup by the time Erin came back around.

“Good service, food, and we’re not getting dirty looks every two seconds. We struck it lucky coming here.”

“Good thing we didn’t get into it with those Goblins.”

Ceria nodded as Gerial removed some grease from his chin with a handkerchief.

“Still—”

Gerial craned his neck and saw only the skeleton walking around offering drinks to adventurers reluctant to accept. Reassured, he continued speaking to Ceria. Neither adventurer noticed how often Toren kept passing by their table despite their full glasses.

“What an odd innkeeper.”

“She’s definitely strange. Goblins and a skeleton. But Pisces is probably to blame for the skeleton. Still—Goblins.”

“Did you see what one of them was armed with? A…a jar of something?”

Ceria smiled with dark humor.

“It set off my [Dangersense] when it pulled it out. Guess what was in it? Acid. I had a look in the kitchen. She’s got jars of Acid Flies—a local creature around here. Looks like she’s been harvesting them as a food source.”

Gerial paused as he munched down on his bread, appetite suddenly lost. Ceria shook her head at him.

“Oh, stop being squeamish. Drakes eat them, and so do the Antinium, I bet. Not that we’d see the ant-men here, but I can see how it would be useful.”

“But the bugs—”

Gerial eyed his plate uneasily, imagining how an insect might crawl into a cooked meal. Ceria glared at him.

“Do you think she’d leave any of them alive? They were all dead. Honestly, you Humans—”

She trailed off and shook her head.

“Well, I get it. Bugs aren’t my favorite thing to eat either.”

That comment nearly made Gerial choke on his drink. But Ceria continued, thinking aloud.

“I’m not sure if she’s just absentminded or if she doesn’t realize how dangerous arming Goblins is. That acid can melt skin in seconds. But besides that, it’s odd to see her living so far out from the city.”

“Not too far. It was barely an hour’s walk even with us getting lost.”

“True. But monsters don’t care about distance. And that skeleton doesn’t look that powerful.”

Gerial nodded. The skeleton didn’t set off any internal alarm bells when he thought of it as a potential foe. It was dangerous and no mistake—but it was no Lich or even a stronger variety of the undead.

“Maybe that’s all the protection she could afford.”

“In that case, she’s reckless or insane. Or—poor. Actually, She reminds me a bit of Ryoka.”

Gerial stared incredulously at Erin as she began haranguing Toren.

“In what way exactly?”

Ceria shrugged, unable to explain.

“They’re not too similar personality-wise, but…it’s just a hunch.”

“Well. So long as we’re here, monsters aren’t an issue. And this is a good inn.”

“Right. If we want to keep using it, we’d better spread the word to the others. If they come in and start something—”

“Got it. I’ll tell the others when I see them. You still working on the spell…?”

Ceria made a face.

“Working on it. It’s complex. Give me two days and I’ll have it done. We probably have enough time for that, right?”

“Probably. Calruz and the others will meet to discuss tonight, but we’ll need to interview other adventurers and see what’s been found. You’ve got at least four days by my count.”

“Okay then—”

Every adventurer looked up at the heavy clomping sound of massive footsteps coming down the stairs. Calruz blinked a few times and scowled at the skeleton as he entered the common room.

“Hey there!”

Erin was already setting the table next to Ceria and Gerial with a huge plate of food. Calruz grunted in appreciation and sat down.

This meal was mainly eggs and bread…and a bowl of lettuce and tomatoes for some reason. Gerial frowned as he saw there was absolutely no meat whatsoever on the plate as Ceria slapped her forehead gently.

“Hey, Mr. Bull Guy.”

Across the room, Gerial saw Sostrom choke on his drink as Erin addressed Calruz. The Minotaur frowned up at her as the Human girl smiled at him. Even sitting down, the Minotaur was nearly as tall as she was.

“I wasn’t sure if you ate meat. I’ve got some bacon. Made from pork—I think, so there’s no beef.”

“I can eat beef.”

Calruz grunted at Erin. She smiled in relief and waved at Toren. The skeleton approached with another huge plate of sizzling bacon. The Minotaur accepted it from Erin’s hand and grunted with satisfaction. Then he eyed her again.

“Also, Innkeeper. My name is Calruz, and I lead the Horns of Hammerad. Any title is fine, but—‘Bull Guy’—I would prefer you not call me that.”

Erin slapped a hand to her forehead.

“Oh no. Is it a racial thing? I’m sorry! I didn’t want to use your people’s word. What should I say instead?”

Calruz’s left eyelid twitched involuntarily. He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Ceria and Gerial held their breaths.

“We’re not bulls. Or cattle.”

“What are you, then?”

This time, Calruz eyed Erin long and hard to see if she was joking. But she seemed completely earnest.

“A Minotaur.”

“Wow. I thought you were, but you look a lot different than the pictures.”

“What did you think I looked like, then?”

Erin waved her hands and gestured helplessly.

“Oh, I don’t know. Less—hairy. Sort of like a Human with a Minotaur’s head. And your horns are really cool.”

She pointed to Calruz’s long horns, and this time, Gerial thought the Minotaur would erupt. But he seemed mollified by Erin’s amazement.

“I don’t know what kind of Minotaurs you’ve heard of. But I accept your mistake.”

He began eating, considerably faster than Gerial and Ceria but with his utensils and without creating a mess. Erin paused, clearly thinking of something else. Reluctantly, Calruz looked up.

“What?”

“Um. Do you like mazes?”



——



Erin learned a lot about Minotaurs on that day. They were pretty polite, good eaters, could actually eat beef if they wanted to—but they weren’t fans of lots of questions.

She watched the Horns of Hammerad leave the inn and troop towards the city and stared at what they’d left behind. Money, of course—they’d paid in advance and handsomely too, and that was only for the first night. And they were coming back for dinner, but it was the other thing that they’d left which was bothering her.

Dishes. Lots of dishes.

Erin stared at the stacks of dirty silverware and porcelain and pointed at Toren.

“You wash that.”

The skeleton nodded—almost glumly, Erin thought. It hauled the bucket of water up and poured it into a pot to heat up over the fire while Erin opened her pantries, dreading what she might find.

Two minutes later, Erin rushed out of the inn.

“I’m out of food!”

She paused, ran back inside to grab her money pouch, and then ran out again. Toren rushed out behind her.

“Stay there! Wash the dishes!”

He halted, clattering his jaw as Erin raced down the hill.



——



“Okay, make that ten sausages, and I need a bag of salt, too. Oh, and some cooking oil.”

Krshia nodded and shouted something in her growling language to another Gnoll across the street. Both shopkeepers disappeared and began pulling out the various foodstuffs Erin had requested.

It was easier to go to Krshia for everything she wanted, Erin had found. The other Gnoll could direct her to the right shopkeepers, and that way, Erin knew she was never being ripped off.

“Is there anything else, Erin Solstice?”

“Um…”

Erin looked around. Market Street was still half-destroyed, but the part that hadn’t been burnt down had already resumed business as usual. And indeed, a large part of the burnt street had already been replaced by the industrious Workers. Shopkeepers had already set up their stalls, and if you ignored the black soot on some buildings and the ground, it looked like everything was normal.

The only difference was the Guardsman walking down the street every few minutes and the unfriendly looks that were being directed at every Human who entered. Erin got her fair share of glares, but it seemed like the shopkeepers knew her face, so at least they didn’t mutter insults when she walked by. At least, none that she could hear at any rate.

“I don’t know. What would you recommend, Krshia?”

The Gnoll propped her hands on her hips and thought.

“Hm. These are adventurers staying at your inn, yes? Then buy ale or something to drink, yes?”

“Ale? Oh, right! Sure! Give me a, uh, barrel of that.”

Krshia smiled but shook her head.

“It should be a keg for now. Transporting a barrel is hard, yes? And my Runner—he is overworked. He will not be able to transport your goods until tomorrow, even without a barrel to drive, yes?”

“What? Tomorrow?”

Erin’s face fell. She’d gotten used to the unfriendly, silent Gnoll who drove a cart to her inn every time she needed a delivery. True, it wasn’t ‘running’, but Krshia told her Street Runners often used carts to carry heavy deliveries, unlike City Runners. Whatever that meant.

“Can’t you get it to me sooner? I’m out of food at the inn!”

Another shake and Erin had to step back to avoid the flying brown fur.

“My apologies. But it is a busy time, yes? So many customers, which is good. But not for you, yes? I can lend you a cart, but that is all.”

Disconsolately, Erin stared at the small mountain of goods she’d bought. Krshia had marked it and set it aside for the Runner to pick up. It was—well, it was a lot. She’d bought it thinking she wouldn’t have to carry it. But since she did, suddenly Erin regretted her spending.

Briefly, she wondered if she could get away with only taking a little bit. But the adventurers ate so much, and they were her first real guests. She didn’t want to disappoint them, but the sun was already high in the sky, and she needed to make lunch soon.

There was no helping it. Taking Toren into the city was more trouble than it was worth. If she wanted to get it back, she’d have to make several trips with a handcart between feeding her guests. Erin sighed.

But then she brightened. Moving through the crowd, she spotted a group of people who were out of place. At least, out of place for what she considered to be Liscor’s unusual crowd. She spotted a woman in silver armor, a huge guy with an axe, and several other Humans walking with a tall Minotaur she recognized.

Erin raised her hand and waved.

“Hey! Hey! Hammer captain!”



——



“Why are we doing this again?”

Gregor, Captain of the Silver-rank team of adventurers known as Kyrial’s Vanguard, complained as he finally reached the top of the small hill where The Wandering Inn stood. He was wearing his armor, of course, and his iconic battleaxe as well, but the big man had another burden.

A sack of onions and five freshly baked loaves of bread, to be precise. And a narked expression, but that didn’t weigh anything.

“We’re here because we want to use this inn for planning and the innkeeper needs food. And because helping out is the polite thing to do.”

Yvlon smiled at Gregor and winked silently at Erin as she carried along two hams.

“Exactly. And it’s not that heavy.”

Gerial had to wheeze that last comment. He’d been carrying a bag of flour by himself and was regretting it, especially with the weight of the rest of his armor.

Calruz grunted irritably. He dropped the bags of flour he’d carried pointedly into Toren’s arms as the skeleton emerged from the inn. The skeleton staggered under the weight as it carried them into the kitchen.

“This was not warrior’s work.”

“No, but it was necessary, and I appreciate it.”

Erin grinned at Calruz as she hauled a smaller bag into the kitchen. She poked her head out.

“Besides, if you didn’t help out, I wouldn’t be able to make lunch! This way, you can eat and complain at the same time, Mr. Grumpy!”

Ceria smiled and dropped the links of sausage on the table.

“Touché. She’s got you there, Calruz.”

Yvlon and the other adventuring captains dropped their burdens on tables and looked around the inn. Cervial whistled appreciatively.

“And you lot have this entire inn to yourself? We’ve barely standing room in our inn, and we’re sleeping three people to a room. Mind sharing?”

Gerial laughed as he massaged his shoulder.

“Talk with the innkeeper, but we’ve occupied most of the second floor.”

“And we’re not giving up our rooms!”

That came from Ceria. The half-Elf sighed as she sat back in a chair and accepted a glass of water from the skeleton. She’d gotten used to the undead creature, but the eyes of the other captains followed Toren as he walked back into the kitchen.

“You told us, but I didn’t believe—”

The Mage-Captain, Menes, was the least-surprised.

“It’s not that uncommon. Other nations use the undead, although I’ve never heard of one serving drinks. What do you think, Byres?”

Everyone turned to the one person who’d be most unhappy about the skeletons—but Yvlon Byres exhaled slowly. She tossed her hair behind her and smiled in thanks as Erin handed her a cup. Then Yvlon looked at the other captains as they too were given refreshments and a promise of lunch for their hard work.

“I think…I’d rather have somewhere to sit and plan than cause a fuss and have to squeeze into a corner of the inn. Let’s drop it.”

She eyed the skeleton, but everyone else agreed to that, thinking of their lovely accommodations. Gerial rubbed his hands together with a big smile as he saw the sausage links being ported into the kitchen. He looked around good-naturedly, and everyone else relaxed as the first blue fruit drinks came out with the water.

“Well, we’re here a bit sooner than I thought, but shall we begin planning?”



——



Time didn’t seem to be on Erin’s side. Well, it was passing by, but far too quickly for her liking.

It seemed like she’d just woken up, made breakfast, and bought some food before it was lunchtime. And then she’d made lunch, cleaned up, and suddenly it was dinnertime.

But that was the thing about catering to a crowd; it took a long time, and Erin had to keep making food in preparation for people eating food. So although the night came quickly, she was quite, quite conscious that she’d worked through the day to get to it.

Erin stopped to wipe a layer of sweat from her forehead and wince because she’d smeared tomato sauce all over her brow. Oh well, it wasn’t as if her face had been that pristine to begin with. And she was too busy to wash it away.

She glanced out at the clouded night sky and wondered if it were time to shut the window in the kitchen. She’d undone the shutters here to cool down the stiflingly hot kitchen, but it looked like rain, and the last thing she needed was a wet kitchen floor.

The nights were getting colder. Already, Erin had taken to closing all the windows by the evening, and tonight was especially chilly. Dark storm clouds had swallowed the sun hours ago and promised to drop their cargo sometime tonight.

“Winter is coming.”

Toren paused and cocked his head at her. He probably hadn’t heard what Erin had said. She waved her hand at him, and he exited the kitchen.

She was done with her plate of spaghetti. Well—plates. Erin lifted one in each hand carefully—she could do more, but it was heavy porcelain, and she didn’t feel that rushed—and walked out into the common room.

A wave of noise greeted her. Adventurers sat around her room, talking, laughing, arguing. It was such a bizarre sight in her inn that Erin had to pause. But she was on a mission and the food was heavy, so she made her way to the two tables that had been pushed together in the center of the room.

“What do you mean, wait?”

Calruz slammed one fist down on the table, making Erin nearly jump. He was shouting at a bunch of men and one woman—all adventurers, allegedly. They’d come into the inn around lunchtime with a few of their friends and had stayed around, talking.

Well, mainly arguing. Ceria and Gerial sat next to Calruz, wincing as the Minotaur expressed his discontent. Each of the other adventuring captains also had a vice-captain with them.

“We’re not ready to go in, Calruz. We need supplies. We thought we could get them here, but prices are high and supply is low. Besides that, we need to send some scouting teams in. And there are other adventurers to consider letting join—”

“We know what’s in there. And the Ruins are less than an hour’s journey from the city! We don’t need supplies or scouts!”

“We agreed to come Calruz, but that doesn’t mean we put ourselves under your command. We’re all equals here, and we go in properly or we don’t go in at all.”

That came from Menes, the only other mage at the table besides Ceria. He smiled and thanked Erin as she put his food in front of him. Then he returned his attention to Calruz.

“There are some Silver-rank adventurers in the city. Some good ones that I know. It wouldn’t hurt to have them with us, and as Cervial said, we need time. A day or two of delay won’t lose us any time. Myself, I’m more concerned about our formations. Ceria has said she can learn the [Illumination] spell in time, but even if we get that cast, how will we approach the actual exploration phase? I’m not too keen on splitting up our vanguard—”

Gregor shifted. He’d been busy chomping down on slices of ham, but he stopped to glare at Menes.

“You can’t be suggesting we keep our forces together. The time it would take—”

Erin stopped listening. She was busy, and the adventurers had been arguing all day. That was preferable to them having, say, a bar fight, but she was busy.

She spun past her inn, taking requests for food, filling empty mugs, and generally wishing she was less busy. The door opened, and Erin turned to smile at the newcomer and explain that skeletons and Goblins in general were friendly.

She didn’t have to. Pisces stood in the doorway, blinking in surprise at the crowded inn. He paused, looking around as if he thought he were in the wrong place. Erin waved at him.

“Sit over there!”

She pointed to a lonely table. Pisces hesitated, still eying the adventurers, but eventually went and sat down. He paused as he passed by the table where adventuring captains were sitting. They looked up, and Ceria spoke.

“Pisces.”

The [Necromancer] nodded to her. The two locked gazes like cat and dog. No…that wasn’t fair. They tensed up, and Erin had only seen that look of hostility and regret on Pisces’ face once when he thought she was selling him out to the Watch. On Ceria’s face? Pained regret and her own unspoken anger.

He nodded slowly, face pale.

“Ceria.”

They seemed unable to say more than that. So—almost accidentally, someone ran into Pisces, and he started.

“Hey, Pisces! Stop bothering my customers!”

Erin booted the mage in the back, much to the amusement of several of the adventurers. Pisces glared at her and glared harder when Toren came by to hand him a menu.

“I must protest! My creation is not meant for menial tasks. Moreover, I am an accredited [Mage] and deserve to be treated—”

“Food!”

Erin dropped a plate in front of Pisces and left. She was so busy! If this was what having an inn was like, she seriously needed another skeleton. Or two. Toren was practically dashing about, serving the wary adventurers with mechanical precision.

This was why an inn had a cook and bar-people. Come to that, a bartender would also have been helpful, as well as another keg of ale. Erin had long ago run out, and the adventurers had been disappointed to learn she didn’t have any more. She probably could have made a fortune on that alone.

The door opened. Erin turned, prepared a smile, and then smiled for real.

“Olesm?”

The blue Drake staggered into her inn, looking around wildly. He spotted her and rushed towards Erin, heedless of the other adventurers who’d gone temporarily silent at the sight of a Drake.

“Erin! I did it! I did it!”

“Did what?”

“I finally solved it!”

The Drake crowed and danced about, waving the slip of parchment at Erin. She blinked at him, confused.

“It was the work of days—no, nearly a week! In the end, I had to lock myself away, but I did it! And I leveled! Twice!”

“Wait, twice? What?”

She had to get him to stand still to show her, which was no mean feat. Erin saw a very inky piece of paper and the notation for four chess moves. A solution to a chess puzzle. Her puzzle.

“Oh, you did it! Congratulations!”

She smiled at Olesm, and he gave her a toothy grin in reply. He looked delirious with delight, but his eyes were also slightly unfocused, hinting that he was delirious in more ways than one.

Drakes didn’t have whites in their eyes. Like the Gnolls, their eyes were a single color with a dark, snake-like pupil in the center. Olesm’s eyes were a marvelous shade of blue patterned wildly like raindrops falling.

They were also bloodshot and wild. Erin noticed Olesm seemed gaunt and thinner than she’d seen him last. He also had an unwashed smell and…was that dead skin on the side of his neck? No—dead scales. They were flaking off, and it looked like a terrible fungus infection the more Erin stared at it.

She was trying not to, really. But it was extremely distracting.

Olesm noticed where Erin was looking and blushed. He immediately covered the spot with one hand.

“Um—I’m so sorry. I haven’t bathed or cleaned myself in a while. I was just so happy to have solved it I rushed over. But I did it at last! It was the greatest challenge I’ve had, and the rewards were—rewarding!”

He smiled in a state approaching bliss. Erin had to smile with him as she led him to an empty table and waved at Toren for a drink.

“It took a week, huh?”

“Just a bit less than that, I believe.”

Gratefully, Olesm accepted the mug and then stared in horror at the creature that had served it to him. Meanwhile, Erin was trying to remember. She’d given him a chess problem? Oh! Oh yes, it was the one she’d sent to the mystery chess game enthusiast. Olesm had said he was going to make a copy.

And it had taken him a week? Erin was…impressed.

She was impressed. It had taken her nearly a week to solve the problem as well. Admittedly, she’d been going to class and only spent a few hours here and there trying to solve it. And she’d been in middle school. But still.

It made a difference that Olesm had never learned any of the basic strategies that Erin had built her knowledge of chess on. That was part of the reason she could still wipe the floor with him and anyone else, although Olesm was probably the best. And it explained why she hadn’t seen him. She’d actually forgotten about him—

“Erin. Erin!”

Olesm was pulling at Erin’s hand. She snapped out of her thoughts and saw the Drake’s blue scales had turned pale.

“What is it?”

“There’s a sk-skeleton!”

He pointed, and his claw shook at Toren as the skeleton brought another plate of food out for Calruz. Erin stared blankly at Toren.

“Yeah. That’s Toren.”

“Toren? It has a—what’s a skeleton doing here? Did that [Necromancer] summon it?”

Erin realized that Olesm hadn’t seen Toren before. She tried to explain. Olesm tried to listen. It was quite noisy in the common room.

“What? And you accepted it? But the undead—they’re so—dangerous! Besides, one skeleton isn’t worth all the food you’ve been feeding Pisces!”

Erin’s eyes narrowed, and she tossed a glare over the room at Pisces. He was already trying to avoid Ceria’s gaze as the half-Elf occasionally stared at him, but he flinched away from Erin as well, although he couldn’t possibly have known what she and Olesm were talking about.

“Oh really?”

Olesm nodded. He tore into the food Toren brought for him, clearly famished.

“Their binding spells don’t last that long. Your average skeleton falls to pieces within a day or two of being animated, and even if the necromancer uses an indefinite binding, their spell fails the instant they take too much damage. And they’re surprisingly fragile!”

“Well, this one hasn’t fallen apart, and it’s been knocked to pieces once already.”

Olesm frowned.

“Really? That’s not usual. Most come apart instantly if you do that. This one might be made to reassemble? Most mages don’t spend nearly that much mana on a lowly skeleton.”

“I think this one’s different. It’s smart enough to take orders and serve drinks for one thing.”

The Drake followed Toren’s circuit around the room and nodded slowly.

“True. And that’s odd too. It’s very intelligent—can it play chess, by any chance?”

“What?”

Erin grinned at Olesm and laughed.

“Is that all you think about? You’re like me when I was a kid!”

The Drake blushed and ducked his head. Then he paused and looked around the room.

“I didn’t think you would be so busy—I was hoping to play a game, but I wouldn’t want to take you away from your work. Where is that small Goblin or the Worker called Pawn?”

Erin’s smile faded. She’d nearly forgotten the events of yesterday as well.

“I haven’t seen Rags and her crowd today. They must be doing Goblin-y things. But—the Workers probably won’t be coming for a while. There was an—incident with Pawn.”

Olesm looked alarmed.

“What happened?”

Someone was calling Erin’s name. She glanced around, distracted, and made a face.

“Tell you later! Wait until everything slows down and then we can play a game of chess, okay?”

Reluctantly, Olesm nodded. He brightened as Erin brought him more food, though, and began attacking that. Erin walked over to the waving adventurer, and her endless quest for customer satisfaction continued.



——



Late. Later in the night. Erin was bone-tired, but she was still smiling and still, surprisingly, having fun. The adventurers weren’t jerks, and they liked her cooking. And they had money! It wasn’t bad to be working for once, and Erin wondered just how much money she’d make from tonight.

Not a bad haul. But she was tired. She paused, wiping at her forehead, and accepted a drink from Toren.

“Hey, good job. You’re not doing so bad.”

The skeleton paused and nodded at her. She blinked in bemusement as it bustled out of the kitchen.

“Skeletons. They think they’re as good as people.”

She laughed and walked back out. At last, the food requests had stopped coming in, and it was just filling glasses and doing the stacks of dirty dishes in the kitchen. Toren could do that. Erin would just fill up a bucket with water from the stream and boil it before she could sit down and play a game of chess with Olesm and maybe Pisces.

She had bucket in hand and was heading to the door when it opened. Two Workers immediately stepped inside. Erin raised a hand to greet them—

And half of the adventurers in the room drew their weapons.

“Whoa! Hey! Swords down!”

Erin shouted as the adventurers began pushing their chairs back and the Workers wavered. She put herself between the adventurers and the doorway.

“These are my guests! Guests!”

“Antinium!”

“The Black Tide!”

Some of the adventurers were shouting, but the adventuring captains were the first to get over their surprise. Gregor grabbed the shoulder of an adventurer that was rising and shoved him down in his seat.

“Don’t fight!”

This came from Cervial. He raised his voice and shouted at the adventurers.

“They’re part of Liscor! You hurt them, you make an enemy out of the city! They’re not here for a fight! These are the Worker-types.”

Erin ignored the shouting as the Captains began restoring order in the inn. She looked at the Workers, confused.

“Why are you here? I thought you couldn’t leave the city.”

Not without Pawn. But then Erin’s mind caught up with what she was saying.

“Pawn?”

“Yes, Innkeeper Solstice. But there is an issue—”

The Worker opened the doorway. Erin saw two other Workers helping another of their kind through the doorway. He was like them, exactly like them, but different.

Pawn.

He was okay. He was alive. Erin smiled as he stumbled into the inn. But then her smile froze.

The adventurers, who had been swearing and reacting to the presence of the Workers, took one look at Pawn and fell silent. Several sheathed weapons were unsheathed again. In the dead silence, someone swore loudly.

Pawn had to be helped by the two Workers into the inn. He swayed, unsteady. A trail of green blood followed him. Erin’s eyes were caught by the color. So green. So vibrant. A color she’d seen once on her hands before.

The Antinium named Pawn stared up at Erin. She stared back. Her thoughts had—stopped. She stared at him.

He was still Pawn. But he was missing one of his antennae, the one Ksmvr had severed. And he was missing arms as well. Three of them. And part of one leg.

The door closed, and the cold rain began to fall.





1.51


“I am individual. I am Antinium.”

That was the first whisper Erin heard out of Pawn. He sat, no longer bleeding, in the inn as she wrapped a bandage around his severed stumps.

The healing potions the adventurers had used had stopped the bleeding, but there was no way to restore lost limbs. And his severed wounds were still exposed to the air. The Antinium didn’t have skin but exoskeleton. So the bleeding wounds closed…slowly, the chitin creeping over bloody insides.

He whispered to Erin as she sat next to him. The half-Elf named Ceria and the other adventurers hovered around her or watched from their tables, silent spectators. But all of Erin’s attention was on the Antinium in front of her.

“What happened?”

He trembled.

“I was asked questions. I was tested. I passed.”

Erin looked at his broken body. Three arms had been cut away. And part of his foot—his carapace was cracked in multiple places and cut in others.

Torture.

“Is he coming after you? Ksmvr?”

The name made Pawn freeze like a—a cockroach caught in the light. He began shaking so uncontrollably the two Workers had to hold him so Erin could finish wrapping the bandage.

“He—the Prognugator let me go. He let me go. I am individual. Not Aberration. He let me go.”

Pawn repeated the words several times, rocking back and forth. Erin stared at him. She didn’t know what to do.

“Erin—”

She looked around. Ceria was staring at the Antinium.

“Who is this?”

“Pawn. This is Pawn. He’s a Worker.”

“No.”

All four Workers said the word as one. Erin looked at them. They spoke in unison.

“The individual known as Pawn is no longer a Worker.”

“Then what is he?”

“Individual. Antinium. Not Aberration.”

They said it as if it meant something, but Erin couldn’t focus. All she heard was a buzzing in her head. Pawn was…

Ceria looked at Erin.

“This has something to do with the Antinium in the city, right? Did they have a—a fight? I’ve heard of Prognugators. If this Ksmvr is after your friend—”

“No. No!”

Pawn waved his one good arm wildly. Again, the other Workers had to restrain him.

“I am not Aberration. I am not. I am—”

He was incoherent, or as close to it as Erin had ever seen one of the Antinium. She stared at him. He was still shaking. And if he had the means, Erin was sure he would have wept. Instead, all he could do was tremble.

It was curious. Erin felt as though in this moment, she should be full of—something. Rage perhaps, or grief. But instead, there was nothing. Just a few thoughts.

Pawn was still babbling. He kept repeating his innocence as the other adventurers watched helplessly. Some of them looked disgusted, others actually sympathetic. And some were simply silent because it wasn’t the time to speak.

Erin had no time for them. Instead, she walked slowly over to a table. Olesm was paralyzed in his seat. He stared up at her, eyes wide. But Erin didn’t speak to him. Instead, she picked up what was in front of the Drake.

A chessboard.

Ceria blinked as Erin carried it back. But Pawn’s eyes latched onto the simple wooden board as Erin put it on the table in front of him. Pawn looked up into her eyes, and she felt the nothingness in her deepen.

Slowly, the two Workers propped Pawn up, and he moved so he could access the board with his remaining arm. The former Worker hesitated and then moved.

He shook like a leaf in the breeze. Pawn fumbled at the chess pieces with his single arm, clumsily trying to set them up and knocking them over. Trembling.

Erin stared at the Antinium and felt not a trace of fury in her. Not black fury, not burning rage nor wrath enough to power a thousand suns. Nothing.

Her hands were calm as she took Pawn’s pieces and set them up on the board. Carefully, she arranged his pieces and hers. He was white—she was black. He clumsily moved a pawn forwards, and she replied.

Queen’s Gambit. Dutch Defense. Erin crushed Pawn in only a few moves. Ruthlessly. Without guilt or hesitation.

The Antinium wavered. She felt and saw him hesitate and saw the other Workers around him staring. But then she reset the board, and he moved again.

King’s Pawn Game. French Defense. Erin played exactly the opposite game Pawn expected to, staying defensive and picking off his pieces slowly. She won again overwhelmingly.

Nothing. No feeling. Erin played in a void of calm, playing her best against a broken Pawn who could barely move his pieces. She reset the board, and they played.

Again, and again. Glacial silence, forest silence. The silence of endless days on the open desert where the winds devoured all and the sand was the only thing that ever changed. The silence of the open ocean on a sunny day—vast and loud, engulfing all things and making the world a green-blue landscape.

The silence of eternity, played out in the soft clicking of chess pieces on the board.

Again, Pawn played and Erin won. She rotated the board and made the first move. She won again.

He was alone. Alone, and not half the player she was. But with every game, something that had been cut away came back. Slowly, the Antinium’s trembling stopped.

He played. He lost. Erin felt nothing. But each game was a small slice of eternity cut and drifting between the two, a moment of healing, a moment of concentration and silence.

An [Immortal Moment].

And when it was done, when the games had finished and the sun had fallen and then night had turned back into day, Erin stopped. She let Pawn gently push over his king. The Antinium no longer trembled, and she sat in a silent ring of Workers, Goblins, and even adventurers who sat watching the game. A single skeleton hovered with a platter of food in hand, watching with eyes that had seen forever in death and saw forever caught in a single game of chess.

And still, Erin felt nothing. Not a flicker of pain, anger, or sadness crossed her heart. The emotions were too big for her. But whatever was in her prompted her. Erin felt it move, like the way the tide changed. A vast, deep feeling.

She spoke as Pawn hung his head low, drowsy with sleep.

“Ksmvr.”

The single word brought the Antinium out of his half-sleep, shuddering. But he was strong enough to hear the name now, strong enough to listen and not weep. Erin met Pawn’s eyes and saw a person staring through an insect’s multifaceted gaze.

She made no promises, spoke no untrue words. Erin reached out and held the cold insect Worker, hugging him gently. Then she stood up and said two words.

“I’m sorry.”

The door closed softly behind Erin. For a moment, all the adventurers stared, still caught in a fragment of forever. Then the silence was broken by shock and cursing as half the adventurers in the inn rushed out after her.



——



“Erin!”

Ceria was the first out of the inn. She was no warrior, but her heritage gave her grace and speed. And she wasn’t weighed down by armor.

The half-Elf ran into the rainy night and found the other girl was already gone. The door opened, and Yvlon and Cervial were outside right behind Ceria.

“Where did she go?”

“Towards the city, obviously. But she must be moving fast. I can’t even see her from here.”

“Well, let’s get after her! If she’s trying to pick a fight—”

“Humans.”

Ceria snapped the word, more as a general curse on the situation than an attack on Erin. She looked at Yvlon.

“I can go, but that Antinium needs watching. And I’ve got no movement Skills. Can you—?”

“Of course. You stop Calruz.”

“Right. And if she gets there first, don’t fight the one called Ksmvr. Attacking him is the same as attacking the Hive.”

Cervial nodded. He looked around, seeing through the dark night better than even Ceria could.

“Let’s go. I can’t see her. The girl must have some kind of running Skill.”

Without a word, the two captains ran towards the city, moving like a blur. Ceria watched them go and then turned. She saw other adventurers standing just outside, caught in indecision.

“If you want to go, go. But only drag that innkeeper back. Fighting here would be a mistake. But it would be better if less people were out in the darkness. We don’t know what kind of monsters live here.”

At her words, most of the adventurers went back into the inn. Or tried to. They had to retreat as a large shape pushed his way through the crowd.

Calruz emerged from the inn, face dark with anger. None of the Humans wanted to get in his way, but Ceria stood in front of the Minotaur’s path.

“Where do you think you’re going?”

“After the innkeeper. Where else?”

“Yvlon and Cervial are already after her. You wouldn’t be able to catch her anyways.”

Calruz grunted.

“Who says I’m going to catch her? The child needs a second for a proper death duel.”

“You will not go. If we cause a disturbance—”

“Honor is at stake. You will not stop me.”

Ceria felt a massive hand move her aside. She thought about the few spells she could use and then abandoned the idea when she saw the look on Calruz’s face. She stared helplessly as the Minotaur strode off in the direction of the city.

“The other two might be able to stop him. If they get to the innkeeper in time.”

Gerial said it loudly behind Ceria. She had to raise her voice above the pounding rain. She was already soaked, but at least her enchanted robes weren’t getting soggy with water.

“I just hope she doesn’t actually try to fight that Antinium—or whoever he is. She’s no warrior.”

“No.”

The two leading members of the Horns of Hammerad stared at each other. They both felt it. The hint of déjà vu.

“If you want to go—”

“No. Calruz won’t listen to me anymore than you. And if he does pick a fight, better it’s only him. Besides—”

“Besides what?”

Gerial stared out into the rain, hand clenched.

“If I went out there, I don’t think I could stop myself.”

Ceria followed his gaze. The night was dark and stormy. She spoke distantly.

“That’s not what I’m worried about.”

“What?”

“It’s night. And—the timing of it.”

Ceria paused. Gerial stared at her. They trusted each other, and adventurers learned to listen to their feelings. Ceria hit on what her instincts were telling her and spoke.

“It feels like a trap.”



——



Ksmvr stood on a hilltop, waiting. He was not within the boundaries of Liscor. It was important that he was not.

Boundaries. Rules. Ksmvr understood them. They were important. Rules and order made up the Hive, and by such things could everything be understood.

Pacts had been made. The Soldiers of the Hive were not permitted above-ground save for times of emergency—or war. And while the definition of emergency could allow for numerous occasions, bringing the Soldiers above ground would bring about questions regardless. And the Queen was not to be disturbed.

But no such pacts had been established outside of the city. Therefore, four of the Soldier Antinium stood silently next to Ksmvr, silent giants waiting for his order. They were elite—perhaps not as strong individually as he was, but close. Together, they were more than enough to subdue a single [Innkeeper].

It might have been overkill to a Human, but the Antinium took no chances. And Erin Solstice had established her worth. Initially, Ksmvr had only known what his Queen had told him, and from that, he had thought of her as insignificant. Worthless.

But—and here was the difficult part—Erin Solstice was important. She was valuable. Perhaps unique. His Queen had been wrong in her appraisal of Erin, and that bothered Ksmvr greatly.

But the duty of a Prognugator was to protect and serve the Hive. Ksmvr would do just that. He waited for Erin Solstice in the certainty that she would come.

Her actions were a matter of record. More than that, the established thought processes of Humans were well known to Ksmvr. She would come in fury and vengeance to be caught, and the individual known as Pawn would be easily retrieved. Minor obstacles like the Goblins, adventurers, and skeleton were of no object.

Ksmvr shifted in his position on the hilltop that afforded him a view of the area surrounding the city. He was not bored. He was incapable of being bored. But the time he had spent waiting bothered him.

The Soldiers behind Ksmvr did not move. They waited, alert for any threat. They did not get bored either.

But Relc was quite bored. The Drake yawned, and all five Antinium turned. Ksmvr’s swords and daggers sprang from their sheaths, and the Soldiers immediately raised their club-like hands.

“Hold it.”

Relc sat up in the grass, appearing out of the dark landscape as if by magic. It wasn’t magic of course. But mud and the Drake’s dark scales had made him practically invisible in the grass.

Ksmvr held up a hand and sent a mental order to the Soldiers. But neither he nor the other Antinium relaxed. He kept his swords pointed at the ground.

“Senior Guardsman Relc. Do you have business with me at this time? If so, I request it wait until tomorrow.”

Relc scratched at the back of his head. He looked at Ksmvr and glanced away.

“What? Oh, no, no. I don’t have business with you.”

Ksmvr waited, but Relc didn’t say anything else. More questioning was in order.

“May I inquire as to your purpose here?”

“Sure, inquire away.”

More silence. Ksmvr was aware that Relc was being deliberately obstinate and confrontational. A troubling complication.

“Why have you followed my group?”

Relc raised what would have been an eyebrow.

“I’m not following—”

“Please refrain from lying. There is no other reason for you to be out here at this time of night. Moreover, you are not currently on duty. Why are you here?”

The Soldier Antinium shifted slightly. Relc eyed them, unimpressed. He flicked his tongue out and shrugged.

“I’m just taking a walk. And, uh, a nap. In the rain. Which I do quite often.”

Talking to people—or rather, interacting with those not of the Hive was difficult. And Ksmvr was unused to conversations with outsiders in the first place. Still, he persisted, keeping one eye on the dark landscape the entire time.

“Will you return to the city then?”

“Maybe. In time. I’m just enjoying myself.”

“I see. And will you continue to remain here so long as we are here?”

“Oh, no. I’ll leave pretty soon. Just as soon as a certain stupid Human girl gets back to her inn all safe and sound.”

Ksmvr interpreted that information, and the Soldiers around him raised their hands. Relc waved at them with his tail.

“Stop that. I’m not here for a fight. And neither are you, since I’d win.”

It was an accurate statement, at least in that the chances of Relc’s victory were higher than Ksmvr’s. And a deeply complicating factor. Therefore, Ksmvr attempted a higher degree of diplomacy than before.

“Your presence is unneeded. If Erin Solstice cooperates, she will be unharmed.”

“Yeah, but I don’t think she will. Do you? And frankly, even if you plan to feed her with a golden spoon, I don’t think I should let you take her.”

“Erin Solstice is not a citizen of Liscor. Your duty does not extend to—”

“Would you shut up?”

Relc said it pleasantly, but with an edge that made Ksmvr consider silence the most appropriate response. The Drake shook his head.

“You sound just like Klb back—well, back when I first met him. I don’t like that. So shut up and listen since I have to spell it out. Here’s what’s going to happen tonight. Erin Solstice is going to run into the city, probably with that stupid frying pan, and not find you and a bunch of your big Antinium friends. She’s going to go back to her inn all safe and nice.”

“You are protecting her.”

“I guess.”

“Why?”

Relc paused.

“I like her. Well—I used to. Now, I think she’s a bloody idiot Human like the others. But at least she makes good pasta. And—well, let’s call it a favor. Klbkch died protecting her. I just figured it would be a shame if all his effort went to waste.”

There was an inconsistency in Relc’s statements, and Ksmvr leapt on it, sure of his success.

“Klbkch was a member of the Hive. By obstructing my work, you obstruct the Hive.”

Strangely, Relc did not respond to this logical inconsistency like Ksmvr had predicted. He just shrugged.

“Yeah. But I don’t like you.”

Dealing with non-Antinium was so—so frustrating. Ksmvr felt an unexplored emotion within him. Troubling. But he persisted.

“I am Prognugator of the Free Antinium of Liscor. My authority—”

“Shut up.”

Another tack.

“I have four Soldiers with me.”

Relc yawned. He eyed the silent Antinium, whose hands were literal weapons. Their carapaces were equivalent to unenchanted plate armor, and they possessed numerous abilities inherent to the Antinium that other species did not have. Even so, Relc did not appear intimidated.

“I’ve heard that a newly grown soldier is the equivalent of a Level 15 [Warrior] for most species. Interesting. But if you think those guys frighten me, I’ll rip a few of their heads off for you. The Antinium never attacked Liscor in the second war, so you have no idea how strong I am.”

Ksmvr paused and tilted his head as he accessed the required memory.

“Relc Grasstongue, former sergeant of the 1st Wing of the Liscorian army. Currently Level 33 in the [Spearmaster] class and Level 12 in the [Guardsman] class. Negligible levels in the [Archer] class as well as the [Carpenter] class. Possesses mainly combat skills as well as the rare skill [Triple Thrust].”

“…Damn bugs. Did Klbkch tell you that?”

At last. Dialogue. Ksmvr did not have the facial muscles—or face—to smile, but a part of him felt relieved. He attempted to continue the conversation.

“Klbkch estimated that, if necessary, he would be able to hold you off for five minutes and inflict serious wounds before death. If given the order to terminate, he predicted a sneak attack had an even chance of killing you.”

The look Relc gave Ksmvr did not indicate a positive reaction to the conversation.

“I really don’t like you, you know.”

“Your regard for me matters little. My position is temporary.”

“Good for you, I guess. Why are you talking so much, anyways?”

“I am attempting to build the same level of camaraderie shared between you and former Prognugator Klbkch.”

Another pause, and this time, Relc’s expression darkened. He uncrossed his arms and took a step back as if the words had been a threat—which they were not. For some reason, his face looked troubled. Socialization—difficult, as Ksmvr had repeatedly observed. So many unclear variables.

“Well. I—no. I’m going to stand over here until Erin comes by.”

He began to walk off. Ksmvr called out after him.

“Sixteen more Soldiers are currently moving towards this location. You will not be able to stop them alone.”

Relc paused. Ksmvr couldn’t see—but the Drake looked like he was grinning.

“That’s sort of funny. I guess not all of you Antinium are alike, huh?”

“What leads you to that conclusion?”

“You don’t have [Dangersense]. You’d better pray you get it, or another skill like it, soon.”

Relc nodded towards a distant hill. Ksmvr looked and mentally ordered the Soldiers leaving the Hive to hold position. Perhaps if he were Human, he might never have seen the silent figure crouching and smiling down at the two warriors. But he was Antinium, and he recognized Gazi on sight.

The Drake sat down on the hill casually, ignoring the other Antinium still watching him. He nodded towards Gazi’s distant figure.

“Now she could eat you and your cute little soldiers for breakfast. Me, she’d probably choke on the way down.”

Ksmvr was capable of free-thought, a mark of his position and importance to the Hive. He was a leader, meant to direct soldiers and deal with unexpected situations as they arose. Never mind that he had become Prognugator before his training period was over—he was trusted by the Queen. But—but—

But no matter how hard he thought, he couldn’t decide what to do. Erin Solstice was important. But with the presence of Gazi the Omniscient as well as Relc, suddenly the costs of capturing Erin Solstice became too high.

But she was important. But it was too costly. But she was important. But it was too costly. What should he do? His Queen had ordered him not to disturb her. But he knew the importance of Individuals. His entire duty—the entire duty of the Antinium within Liscor revolved around the importance of this. But it was too dangerous.

What should he do? For the first time in his short life, Ksmvr had no idea what he should do.



——



It was a silent—well, stalemate wasn’t the word. From their position within a deep section of the grass, the other watchers could see that the Antinium were in trouble. Even as they watched, their leader came to a decision. He spoke a few words to Relc, and the Antinium surrounding him began marching back to the city.

That was good.

“There. It is well that we did not have to intervene, yes?”

Krshia spoke her comment quietly, but even with the pouring rain, the other Gnolls lying in the grass heard her perfectly. Tkrn and six of the other Gnolls relaxed their hold on their bows. Tkrn nodded at Ksmvr as the Antinium swiftly descended the hill, flanked by his Soldiers.

“It might be best to slay the bug before he returns to the city, yes? It would not be too difficult to do, especially if he intends to hurt this Erin Solstice.”

“Fool.”

Tkrn barely saw the paw that cuffed him on the head. Krshia glared at him between the long stalks of grass.

“He was not trying to kill her. Use your brain, you fool, you.”

The other Gnolls chuckled in amusement as Tkrn flattened his ears in embarrassment. As the most junior member of the Gnolls—and the most inexperienced—it was even more humiliating to make a mistake in front of their leader.

“But he had Soldiers.”

Krshia snorted.

“Yes, to capture her. But he was waiting for Erin Solstice to arrive, yes? That is suspicious. Who waits for a challenge? Only Humans in their pride and Drakes do that, yes? We fight without needing large open spaces and people to watch. But the Antinium—they are even more different than we.”

She nodded at Ksmvr as the Antinium marched back across the flatlands. The Antinium was alert—constantly scanning the landscape. But despite the Antinium’s impressive dark vision, they were no hunters of the plains. Krshia and the other Gnolls were perfectly hidden in their cover.

“If he—Ksmvr—wanted Erin Solstice dead, then dead she would be already. He would stab her before she saw him, yes? But he wanted her here and had many Soldiers with him. Another thing. It is a violation of the treaty to let them out of the Hive unless the city is in danger. Maybe this one is no Klbkch. What am I saying? He is no Klbkch, but it is extraordinary all the same.”

She shook her head.

“Someone else wants Erin Solstice. And excluding the foolish Drake, three different sides came for her tonight.”

“It seems you are right. This Erin Solstice, she is important.”

Another Gnoll made that comment, and the others nodded. If they had doubted Krshia before—and if they had, they were wise enough to never have said it in her presence—tonight changed that. She glared at them.

“I said it, did I not? But it is poor fortune that it is known. We must hurry.”

The other Gnolls nodded. One spoke.

“The other warriors will arrive soon. Within the week.”

“Good.”

Tkrn shifted. He eyed the hill where the silent figure of Gazi was still crouching and engaging in a staring contest with Relc.

“Should we leave, then? Or will Gazi do something?”

The other Gnolls muttered. They knew the odds of taking on a Named Adventurer. Krshia shook her head.

“I do not think so. She is crafty, and she is waiting. I do not think she would have intervened unless all others failed, including we.”

“But she is still here, yes.”

“Yes.”

Krshia scowled up at Gazi. It was impossible—they were perfectly hidden, but the half-Gazer’s eye flicked away from Relc and towards them for the merest fraction of a second. Krshia muttered something as the other Gnolls growled.

“She likes to watch.”

“Well, she can’t do anything to us even if she knows we’re here.”

This time, Tkrn received several admonitory paws to the back of the head. Krshia shook herself and sent water drops flying now that their cover had been broken.

“Maybe not. But it is an ill thing to be spotted. We will wait to make sure she does nothing. Just in case.”

The Gnolls sat up in the grass, relaxing. Relc still hadn’t spotted them, but then, the Drake only relied on his Skills. And the problem with [Dangersense] is that it only told him when there was potential threat.

They meant him no harm. They were on the same side, at least for the night. So the Gnolls waited. The half-Gazer sat patiently, and the Drake ripped up pieces of grass. The night was silent.

They waited.

And waited.

And…

From their position in the grass, the Gnolls saw Relc shift and scratch irritably at his scales. He looked around and then voiced the question on everyone’s mind.

“Where is she?”



——



“We couldn’t find her.”

Ceria stared in disbelief at Yvlon and Cervial as the two adventurers returned, panting. They’d run all the way to Liscor and back in less than thirty minutes.

“What?”

“We got to the gates, but the guard there said no one had come by.”

Both of the adventurers shrugged helplessly. Ceria chewed at her lip.

“Maybe she got lost?”

“I doubt it.”

“Then a monster—”

“We would have noticed that.”

“Then where is she?”

“I don’t know. Did you spot Calruz by any chance?”

Cervial smiled crookedly.

“Yeah. He tried to get into the city, but the guard told him the gates were closed. He’s stomping his way back now.”

Well, that was one problem solved. But the bigger problem remained. Where was Erin Solstice? Ceria stared around, but the night was still full of rain and seeing was impossible.

“Well, we’ll just have to wait. Come on inside—the skeleton is mad as hell, but it’s staying put for some reason. I guess we should as well.”

Yvlon and Cervial trooped back into the inn. Ceria looked around one last time. It was so strange. She’d assumed—

Something dropped from the roof of the inn and landed right next to Ceria. The half-Elf yelped, grabbed for her wand, and stopped.

Erin got up from the ground, wincing at the bad fall. She brushed mud off her shirt and paused as she saw Ceria.

“Oh. Hi.”

Ceria clutched at her heart. It felt as if it had stopped.

“What are you—where were you?”

Erin blinked at her. She pointed up.

“I was on the roof.”

Ceria stared up. The roof.

“…Doing what?”

Erin shrugged. She wiped at her face. It didn’t do much in the rain.

“I was crying. What did you think I was doing?”

Her eyes were red. Ceria could see that perfectly. She replied lamely.

“We—we thought you were going after Ksmvr.”

“Why would I do that?”

Again, Ceria had to stop. She grappled with words.

“Well, after what he did to your friend—I’d say everyone in the inn would have joined you. Calruz especially.”

“Really. Really?”

Erin snuffled again and wiped at her nose.

“That’s nice of you. I guess. You could all hold him down while I bashed his brains out with a frying pan, right?”

“We wouldn’t do that. Calruz—thought you were going to duel him.”

“And kill him?”

Erin looked at Ceria. It was an odd stare. Accusatory. Hurt. Ceria shifted, suddenly awkward.

“But what he did—”

“Evil.”

Erin said it flatly.

“Pawn was innocent. He didn’t deserve that. When I saw what that bastard did—”

“Yeah. So we thought—”

Ceria trailed off lamely. Erin was still staring at her. As if it were the most obvious thing in the world, she shook her head.

“He hurt Pawn. But does that mean I should go out there and beat him to death? How? He’s a warrior, and I’m—I’m an innkeeper. And I don’t murder people. I kill monsters, and I’ve killed in self-defense. But I don’t murder people. Ever.”

It was too hard to meet the girl’s eyes. Ceria looked away. It felt like she was speaking to someone strange. Something—

She had never needed to use the word ‘alien’ in the common tongue. The closest words Ceria knew were outsider, strange, unnatural, and yes, sometimes other species could surprise her, like Selphids. But in this moment, she truly did feel like ‘alien’ fit, genuinely and without bias. Someone completely alien to Ceria’s understanding of the world.

Erin was staring at her, a hint of accusation in her stare. And it was hard to bear. There was something innocent in her gaze, something that Ceria had lost long ago when she first stared into a dead man’s eyes.

“I’m sorry. I just assumed—”

Erin shrugged. She paused and stared around at the dark landscape. Ceria saw her lips move.

“Can I tell you something? Something sort of offensive?”

“Sure.”

Erin stared at the ground and the wet grass. Her breath appeared in the cold air.

“You guys have a really shitty world. A really bad one.”

“We do…?”

“I don’t like it. It’s so wonderful at times—so beautiful and full of magic. But then this happens. Every time. Well. Almost every time. I hate it.”

Ceria had nothing to say to that.

“For a moment, I wanted to kill Ksmvr too. But I would die if I tried that, right? He’s fast. Strong. A warrior. Maybe I could kill him. But then what?”

“He’d be dead.”

“And so would Pawn. Probably. That Queen would send her Soldiers to rip off his head and mine.”

“I understand. You made the right choice.”

Erin shivered.

“Did I? It seems like all I can do at times like this is just accept what happened and move on.”

She shivered. Ceria was conscious of how cold it was. The enchantments on her robes made her feel warm even in the freezing rain, but the Human girl had sat up on the rooftop for—it had to be an hour at least.

“You should come inside. I’m sure Pawn will want to see you.”

She reached out for Erin. The girl’s skin was deathly cold. She muttered something.

“…know.”

“What?”

Erin shook her head.

“I don’t know. I don’t know what to do to stop it. But I do know what to do.”

She walked past Ceria, into the inn. The half-Elf followed, watching. There was something in the Human girl’s eyes.

Pawn half-rose in his seat when he saw her. Anxiety was written all over his face, although only Erin could see it. She smiled at him and sneezed.

The other adventurers stared at Erin. She ignored them. They were not important. Instead, she sat down as Toren rushed towards her with a towel. She patted the cold water off her and felt a bit more alive when he gave her a steaming mug of boiled water.

Olesm had been playing Pawn. But the Drake instantly stood to give her his seat. Erin shook her head.

“Go on. Keep playing.”

The Drake blinked at her and then awkwardly sat down. Erin sat next to Pawn. At first, the Antinium looked at her, but she smiled. It was very quiet in the room. After a while, Olesm coughed and awkwardly moved a piece forward.

Pawn played. The two played. Erin looked at the Workers and got them a chess set. It was strange. The Workers sat and began playing. The adventurers sat awkwardly. After a while, Erin had Toren bring out some leftovers.

And it was still silent. So when the feeling in Erin couldn’t be contained, she opened her mouth.

And began to sing.

It caught Pawn off-guard. He froze as he held a knight in his hand and stared at Erin. So did everyone else. But the awkwardness—the fear she might have felt was nothing. So Erin sang.

She had never been good at singing. Or rather, she’d never been as good at singing as she had at playing chess. But when she was a kid, before she’d quit going to church, she’d been part of the choir. She’d sung in the school choir, and once, just once, her teacher had encouraged her to study singing.

But she hadn’t. Erin had played chess and forgotten how to breathe properly, stopped singing every week. But the music had lingered, and she’d never really forgotten how.

“I don’t know why you hurt inside or what was said to make you cry…”

She didn’t know why she started with a Lady Gaga song. But that one she’d always loved because it made her feel better. And Greatest was probably her greatest song.

Erin had no piano. No voice synthesizer, no backup choir; she didn’t even have a microphone. But she didn’t need those things.

Her voice filled up the room, and it seemed to her audience that even though only one person was singing, they could hear something else. The same song Erin had heard first while sitting in her room playing chess.

Was it one person singing or two? They heard another voice. Strange drums—the sound of a piano—a voice singing with electronic sound in ways they could never have imagined.

Ceria listened and heard another voice and a kind of music she’d never heard of wherever she’d gone. She closed her eyes and thought of a girl who knew colors that Ceria had never seen in her life.

Olesm was playing. Pawn kept moving pieces, but that was a backdrop to the music. Erin finished her song, and silence beat down again. It was oppressive, so she chose another song.

The adventurers had never heard a ukulele played before. But even though Erin wasn’t playing one, they heard it now. And in her voice—a man’s voice. Singing.

“Somewhere over the rainbow way up high…”

She’d always loved Israel Kamakawiwoʻole’s version of that song more than the Judy Garland one. And she’d loved both with all her heart.

The song was lighter, happier in a way, but in another way—not. Someone was crying. Erin kept singing, conjuring a piece of something the people in her inn had never heard before. A piece of immortal music.

Another immortal moment.

And then, of course, she kept singing. Somewhere, Erin started singing Hallelujah and smiled as she remembered watching Shrek for the first time. The music poured out of her as Pawn played a game of chess, pausing to stare at her.

The other adventurers were silent. Ceria listened in silence. She was half-Elf. Half of her had grown up knowing the fragments of forever—but the other half was still in awe.

But the Humans listened to something that was not part of their world. They listened as Erin sang to their hearts.

“I have died everyday, waiting for you. Darling, don’t be afraid, I have loved you for a thousand years…”

Gerial wept into his mustache. The adventurers sat in silence. Yvlon closed her eyes, and Cervial kept rubbing at his.

A moment of eternity. A song. A fragment of the past. A memory.

Immortality brought to life with every verse.



——



She taught them one song. Here I Am Lord, a song from church. It mattered. It was important. And when she sang it, Pawn looked up.

First, Erin sang.

“I, the Lord of Sea and Sky. I have heard my people cry. All who dwell in dark and sin, my hand will save.”

Erin sang with Ceria, two soft voices singing as the half-Elf joined in.

“Here I am, Lord. Is it I, Lord? I have heard You calling in the night.”

And then the others joined in. Men and women, singing a song for a god this world had never known. By the end of the third verse, all the Humans were singing. Calruz leaned against the doorway, frowning, closing his eyes and listening, silent. Pawn listened as Erin sang, leaning against him, warming him.

“I will hold Your people in my heart.”

He shuddered then. And then when she looked at him, he did not cry. The Antinium do not weep. But she still saw the tears in his soul.

And the night passed to day, and Erin sang on. Small songs, grand songs. And the magic was with her, fading with every note. Until she simply sang and the moment was no longer forever. But it was enough. When Erin finally closed her eyes, the inn was silent.

And though the Antinium didn’t smile, she did. For him. For the both of them. Not a smile to say everything was fine. Not to hide the pain, but a smile in spite of the bleeding. As brave as the little Worker who clung to her as she sang him to his rest. Then, and only then, did she let him go, slumbering, and go to the kitchen and lie down.

Erin closed her eyes and slept.

[Innkeeper Level 15!]





1.52 R


On the first day, she saw the Goblins. It was as she ran through the grasslands around Liscor, the Flood Plains, which were a barrier to armies and passage in the spring and empty in the short winter on this continent.

She stopped when she crested the hill and saw them fighting in the small valley below. Ryoka immediately crouched low to avoid their attention. A tribe of Goblins could be outrun, but their bows and slings were still a threat.

Besides, Ryoka couldn’t run as fast. Not today.

Her fire was gone.

This wasn’t a single tribe in the valley below. It was two. And they were fighting. Shrill screams and warcries floated up to where Ryoka hid in the grass. She could see—yes, one of the groups of Goblins was wearing feathers. Some kind of ornamentation.

They were led by a large Goblin—one nearly twice the size of his friends. Still shorter than Ryoka, but heavyset and thick. He had rusted armor patched together on his chest and an axe in one hand. Probably their chieftain.

It was hard to tell where the other Goblins’ chieftain was. There was no Goblin that stood out as particularly bigger than the rest, but this tribe—the defending one—seemed more coordinated than the feathered tribe.

They were holding the other group of Goblins back with a stiff line of clubs and daggers, and their archers and sling-using Goblins were firing over the backs of their friends. It almost looked like an infantry line.

And even as Ryoka watched, another group of Goblins suddenly emerged from the grass and plowed into the right flank of the enemy. The attacking Goblins faltered and reacted slowly as this new group began cutting a line through their foes.

The surprise attack group was comprised of the largest Goblins and the best equipped. A group of heavy infantry? But Goblins didn’t work like that. Except that these ones did. They were organized. They didn’t break ranks as they attacked the other Goblins. They kept in formation and guarded each other’s backs, and the difference showed as they kept gaining ground.

One of these strange Goblins carried a sword and shield that seemed to shine in her hands. They flashed and glowed as she struck and blocked, killing other Goblins, leading the attack. It was a trick of the light. She was tiny—small even for her kind—but she was leading the strange Goblins, Ryoka could tell. The entire battle was coalescing around her, and she was making straight for the enemy chieftain.

He was holding the line as his tribe fell back around him. He roared and raised his axe as the small Goblin approached with a bodyguard of her own. With one blow, he split the head of the Goblin that charged him and struck at the tiny Goblin.

She retreated. He charged towards her, swinging wildly, but she raised her shield and gave ground. Ryoka frowned. The Goblin’s mouth was open, and she looked like she was saying something. And her finger was—glowing?

A flash of light blinded Ryoka for a second. She blinked, rubbing at her eyes. When she could see again, the Goblin chieftain was rolling on the ground, screaming.

He was on fire. And the Goblins around him were being chased by—fire? Yes. It was some kind of spell. It looked like a flickering bird or perhaps fiery insect that landed on its foes and set them alight. The small Goblin had conjured it out of the air.

That was too much. Their leader dead and surrounded by the enemy, the defending Goblins fled or fell to the ground, cowering. Ryoka saw the small Goblin begin rallying her side, pointing to the wounded and shouting orders, staring around at the Goblin who’d run up to her. Turning. Pointing at—

Ryoka blinked. Then her heart began to race. The tiny Goblin was pointing directly at her. How did she know Ryoka was there?

Ryoka stood up. She looked around and only now saw the Goblin sitting on the other hill. A sentry? Goblins using scouts?

He shouted, and all the Goblins stared at Ryoka. The sentry swung a sling, and the first rock barely missed Ryoka’s head.

She ran.

They followed.



——



She was faster. But her fire had gone out. And Ryoka was still tired. Still—she hadn’t slept. Not since then. She’d just kept running.

So she didn’t outdistance the Goblins quickly enough. That was why they were able to herd her. Different groups kept popping up, trying to ambush her, dashing ahead and pushing her towards the main horde.

She didn’t let them. But Ryoka didn’t know the hills and valleys. When she ran into a grove of strange trees, a team of slingers pelted her with stones, making her run left. And that’s when she saw the small Goblin.

She was surrounded by her elite bodyguard of large Goblins. But the small Goblin was the best-equipped out of all of them. She had the short sword and shield that seemed new. Pristine compared to the other equipment the Goblins were using.

Ryoka had to break through them. She raised her fist and decked the first Goblin that ran at her. Not hard enough to break his skull like last time. Not hard enough to kill.

The Goblins hadn’t been expecting that. Ryoka kicked out and took another one down. They hesitated, and the small Goblin screeched something. She ran forwards and slashed at Ryoka’s leg.

Short. But quick. And her friends were too numerous. Ryoka retreated and sensed the other Goblins converging on her. She had to run.

She bull-rushed the Goblins to the right side, and they fell back. They were still afraid of her, for all they had a competent leader. She kicked, punched. And then as she was nearly free, something slashed at the rucksack at her back.

Ryoka spun, and the blade missed her by inches. The small Goblin. She’d been aiming for the straps on Ryoka’s pack. Clever.

Goblins swarmed her. Ryoka cursed and kicked them away, throwing them down hard. They were trying to take her runner’s backpack. Steal her—

She shook herself like a dog, and the Goblins went flying. Ryoka’s hands flashed, and Goblins fell down.

The small Goblin blocked her way as Ryoka moved forwards again. She and another Goblin were the only things blocking Ryoka, but more of the tribe was screaming as they rushed towards her.

The girl crouched and kicked low. A Goblin took a hit to the groin and folded up silently. For a second, she and the small Goblin were alone. They locked eyes.

The small Goblin smiled. She raised a finger, and Ryoka didn’t hesitate. She lunged forwards and kicked the small Goblin as hard as she could.

Her bare foot met the cold impact of metal rather than flesh. The Goblin had managed to raise her shield, but Ryoka’s kick still catapulted her across the ground.

She didn’t see whether the Goblin was going to get up. Ryoka turned and sprinted away, dodging Goblins as they poured over the hill. She felt something graze her arm and then heat on her back—she juked left, and the fiery bird missed her. Ryoka kept running, and then they were behind her.



——



After about ten minutes, Ryoka couldn’t hear any more Goblins shouting. She kept running, though. She didn’t trust her ears.

But her body was aching. She was at the end of her tether, and eventually, Ryoka had to slow to a jog. Her legs felt like lead. Like someone was holding onto each foot. She was tired.

But she ran on. The Goblins disappeared, giving up on her or having found a better quarry.

Ryoka ran on.

She had escaped with everything important. The ring Teriarch had given her—the letter—her money pouch—and she still had the potions strapped to her rucksack. She left the Goblins behind and ran on.

She had everything, right? Ryoka felt at her side as her legs pumped and the last Goblins slowed behind her. She thought she felt the smooth glass of the potion bottle and she didn’t have the time to check with them behind her still.

At least she had the wand. Ryoka felt the crystalline warmth from the core. She looked back—but there were so many Goblins, and she didn’t care. It was just a potion. Nothing mattered.

Ryoka ran.



——



As she bandaged her eighth cut, Ryoka took stock. She unslung her rucksack, relieved it hadn’t been badly damaged by the Goblins. She didn’t have much. But she still carried a lot.

Three healing potions, a wand, a ruby ring, a letter, dry rations, two flasks of water, a change of clothing, a ball of lye soap, a toothbrush wrapped in wax paper, salt, a small lantern, what passed for toilet paper in this world, her iPhone and headphones, a lightweight blanket made of wool, a pouch full of gold coins, and her sins.

The last weighed heaviest. But Ryoka had stopped thinking. She only knew to run. So she did. She ran up and down the rolling hills, finding the road again. Following past the tall gates of Liscor, running down the road where the traffic thinned until the road was barely visible around the grass that had reclaimed it.

Running on. Towards the Blood Fields.



——



On her fortieth mile, the grasslands changed. The hills stopped rolling, and she felt herself travelling down an incline.

The longest hill in the world.

She would have laughed. Or screamed when the spiders came out of their pits. But she ran on, leaving the deathtraps behind and sticking to the road. The grass was not safe.

And the road was empty.

Because the land beyond Liscor was desolate for miles, even of bandits. Bandits preyed on travellers, and who would travel so far north? Better to take a ship. Or if travel had to be done, it was best done in a caravan armed to the teeth.

The road stretching south from Liscor ran down through the plains and branched into several paths that would lead to major cities, the Gnoll tribe lands, and even the coast. But to get there, every traveller had to pass through the Blood Fields.

And they were death.

Ryoka knew this, and she ran on. The landscape changed under her feet. Grass became sparser, tougher, less pleasant to run on and more full of weeds. She stepped in a patch of something like nettles and had to stop.

By the light of the first campfire, Ryoka stared at her swollen foot and ankles. She used one of her precious healing potions, spreading a bit of the liquid over the worst parts, watching the swelling decrease.

But the itching remained. She didn’t want to waste any more potion, so she stayed awake.

After the two thousand and thirty-fourth sheep, Ryoka drank a few gulps of water, flushed a bit of water out of her system, and slept.



——



When she found the second stream, Ryoka’s water had nearly run out and it was the third day. She’d run all day on the first day, but the second had seen her walking.

Because of the rocks.

The road and the ground had lost vegetation, except for the most virulent and prickly of bushes and withered roots stubbornly holding on. And without a soft padding, the ground had become gravel. Try as she might, Ryoka couldn’t bring herself to keep running over mile after mile of pain.

She filled her water bottle, hoping the clear water was potable, and walked on. Her feet hurt, but she had to keep going. There was no turning back.



——



As she popped the fifth blood blister, Ryoka wished she’d brought shoes. But she hadn’t, and the pain was only fitting. So she kept walking. And only now, in the silence of slower motion, could she hear her thoughts again.

She wished she couldn’t. So she ran, trying to lose the thoughts. On and on, day after day until she finally reached the place she had promised to go. Head blank, arms pumping, running without thought, so fast that the three figures dogging her step couldn’t catch up, even by night.





1.53


Ceria woke up first. It was an unconscious act on the part of her body that her mind wanted no part of. As the first rays of dawn hit her, she opened her eyes and sat up in her bed.

It was too early. And despite her early rising, Ceria was not a morning person.

But some things were too hard to forget. It had been years—decades, really—since Ceria had needed to wake up this early. She was safe in this inn, among her friends and companions. Safe.

Yet it was impossible to forget some things. Pisces had brought it out. It was his fault; his face made her remember better times. The academy and all that had gone wrong there. She…

She didn’t feel like attacking him. Not after—what, six years? But it still weighed on her and, she hoped, him too.

Rubbing her face with her hands, Ceria decided that she was up. Remembering the past would only lead to nightmares, and she wasn’t about to wake the inn screaming.

So despite the early hour and lack of sleep, Ceria stumbled downstairs. She blinked around at the room.

“Dd.”

She’d meant to say ‘odd’, but her mouth wasn’t working. What was odd wasn’t that the common room of the inn was a mess—what was odd was that it was not.

Last night. Ceria rubbed at her eyes again and remembered. Music. A night that had lasted forever. Songs and—something else. Some instruments she’d never heard before and beautiful words.

It felt like a dream. But it had been real, so it felt even more dreamlike. She remembered stumbling up to bed as the other adventurers left, still caught in that magical moment.

Yes—they’d left, but adventurers always created messes wherever they went. Mostly in the form of dead monster corpses and blood, but in this case in the form of empty dishes, dirt, spilled food and drink, and coins scattered on the tables.

None of that was here now. The room was clean. In fact, in the morning light, the polished wood practically sparkled at Ceria.

She found that mildly offensive. But hunger was distracting her in no small way. She stumbled towards the kitchen—

And froze as a skeleton blocked the doorway.

“Wood rot.”

That was twice now that Ceria felt her heart was literally about to stop. She staggered backwards and pointed shakily at the skeleton.

“Don’t—do that!”

The skeleton was silent. Ceria blinked at it, still not quite thinking properly. It had a name, didn’t it? Erin called it—

“Toren, right?”

The skeleton made no reply. Well, it had probably been the one to clean up the room. Last Ceria had seen, the girl Erin Solstice had been sleeping next to the Antinium named Pawn.

Who also wasn’t here.

Something about that made an alarm bell go off in Ceria’s head, but she was distracted by pressing needs and the undead monster in front of her.

“Is your mistress up? I’d like some breakfast, but I can get it myself.”

Ceria went to move past the skeleton, but its arm shot out and blocked her way. She stopped and stared at it.

“What are you—”

It put a finger to its yellowed teeth even as Ceria saw Erin rolled up in a blanket in the corner of the kitchen. She blinked at the girl.

“That’s where she sleeps?”

The skeleton made no sound, but it seemed irked that Ceria was still making sound. The half-Elf shook her head. It was too early for this.

“I’m hungry.”

No response. The skeleton stared at her.

“I need food.”

Again, the pitiless cold flames of death were her only answer. Ceria tried to push the skeleton aside, but it grabbed her hand warningly. She eyed it. It looked—well, it was Pisces’ creation. Carefully, she withdrew her hand.

“Fine. No waking her. But can you get me something to eat? Or—cook something?”

The skeleton seemed to consider this. After a moment, it reluctantly nodded and walked into the kitchen. Unlike the many skeletons Ceria had seen or killed, this one walked with something approaching grace. It was a superior version of an inferior undead creature, and there was only one mage stupid enough to create something like that.

Pisces. Ceria narrowed her eyes at the skeleton as it trotted into the kitchen. It was certainly an improvement on his older work. For one thing, this skeleton was quite intelligent. But that in itself wasn’t a good thing. It meant he was closer to his goal. If he ever made an undead that was capable of leveling—

She blinked as Toren appeared in front of her. He was holding something.

“Is that…a loaf of bread?”

It was. An entire loaf, unmarred by imperfections such as slicing or condiments. Toren thrust it at her.

Ceria took it and stared at him.

“Am I supposed to eat this? I need something else, you know.”

The skeleton couldn’t sigh. But Ceria distinctly got that it would if it could. It stared at her and then walked silently back into the kitchen.

Bemused, Ceria sat at a table and stared at the loaf. After a moment, she fished out her belt knife.

She’d just managed to cut a few slices away when the skeleton reappeared. It put a bowl down in front of Ceria. She stared at that too. It was also holding eggs.

Toren dropped the eggs in front of Ceria next to the loaf of bread. Then it added a bag of sugar. It went away and brought a cup and a pitcher of water out and then walked back into the kitchen.

Ceria stared at the food on her table. She eyed the eggs, bread, sugar, and the water. She caught one of the eggs before it rolled off the table and stared at it.

She shrugged.



——



When Gerial stumbled downstairs, yawning and rubbing at his eyes, he found Ceria dipping slices of bread into a bowl of egg yolks. Some sugar had also been added to a slice of bread and turned into a sandwich that made him entirely forget about breakfast.

The half-Elf looked up as she munched on her dipped slice of bread. She was reading from her spell book.

“Oh. Hey. The innkeeper’s asleep, so there’s no breakfast. But the skeleton got me some food. Want some?”

Gerial stared at the raw egg dripping from the slice of bread. He shuddered.

“That’s disgusting.”

Ceria rolled her eyes.

“You Humans. You eat eggs all the time. What’s the difference between frying them and grabbing them from a nest?”

“A very big difference, thank you.”

Gerial sat at the table and tried not to watch Ceria chomping down her meal. He stared at her cup.

“Is that sugar?”

“Goes well with the water if you add enough. Want some?”

He hesitated.

“I think I’d prefer normal food, thanks. Where’s the innkeeper?”

“Still asleep, I think. She’s in there.”

Ceria nodded to the kitchen.

“That damn skeleton’s guarding her though, so don’t go in. This is all it gave me to eat.”

“I see.”

“Yup. So this is the only food you’re getting for a while. Want some?”

“Pass.”

The two adventurers sat in silence for a while. It wasn’t the first time they’d done this. Gerial was a morning person, and he’d often found Ceria awake. His stomach rumbled, and he tried to ignore it.

After a while, the silence was too much. Gerial had to talk. He rubbed at his mustache and awkwardly cleared his throat. Ceria looked up and raised an eyebrow.

“So. Last night.”

“It was quite something, wasn’t it?”

“Something? It was—”

Gerial didn’t have words to describe it. He was no mage, and the memory of last night stuck in his head as something he could only describe as magical.

“What was that? Was it a spell?”

“A Skill, I think. Not one I’ve ever heard of. Must be a rare one.”

“But that wasn’t it either. Those songs—”

“Beautiful.”

Ceria smiled, and Gerial nodded fervently. But she didn’t seem as awed as he was by the memory. She frowned slightly.

“It was amazing. But odd as well.”

“Odd?”

“I’ve never heard any of the songs she sang. Not one. And the music that came with it—did it sound like anything you’d ever heard before?”

“Not even in my dreams.”

But Gerial had dreamed of those songs last night. He felt his eyes sting a bit as he remembered and turned his head to wipe at them. Ceria shook her head.

“They were moving, but that’s not the point, Gerial. It’s another mystery. Where did that music come from? How did that girl—”

She glanced up and stopped talking abruptly. That was another thing Gerial was used to, so when Erin stumbled out of the kitchen, he was already turning to greet her.

“Good morning, Miss Erin.”

She stopped and stared at him. She was still wearing the same food-spattered clothing she’d had on yesterday, and the rain and muck had made the smell and sight worse. She also looked miserable.

“Morning.”

Ceria nodded at Erin. The girl shook her head.

“Is everything alright?”

Another shake. Erin paused, made a face, and reluctantly opened her mouth.

“I hab a thore throat. And a cold.”

“Oh.”

“I see. My condolences.”

Erin staggered over to their table and flopped onto it. Gerial saw the skeleton walk out of the kitchen and stand behind her. Erin didn’t seem to notice—or care.

Ceria put down her book and pushed aside her bowl of egg yolk to peer at Erin. She shook her head.

“It must have been sitting out in the rain last night that did it.”

“I bnow.”

The half-Elf was already focusing on Erin, her fingers glowing with pale green light.

“I can do something about the sore throat, but healing potions don’t cure colds. And I wouldn’t recommend you trying one unless you want to roll the dice on it getting better—or turning into a debilitating sickness.”

“Really? You can—”

Erin yelped as Ceria poked her throat. Instantly, the skeleton behind her raised a threatening fist, but Erin sat back in her chair.

“Ow, that—hey! My throat is better!”

She still had a stuffed nose, though. Silently, Gerial offered her his handkerchief. Erin blew her nose and looked at him gratefully.

“Sorry.”

“Think nothing of it.”

Erin sniffed and handed him the handkerchief back.

“I hate colds.”

She looked at Ceria and Gerial pleadingly.

“Magic?”

Ceria shook her head at Erin.

“I’m sorry, but I can’t cure that so easily. I only know [Numb]—the spell I used on your throat—and colds are tricky. Way beyond me. Maybe a [Healer] can cure it? Drink hot soup.”

“What? But it’s a cold.”

Erin whined at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed, but remained patient.

“It’s a cold. The most common of illnesses. Which means no one’s figured out how to get rid of it. And before you suggest it—experimenting on sicknesses can create far worse kinds. Or just make them immune to magical healing at all.”

Gerial was surprised.

“That can happen? I thought—well, it’s just being sick, isn’t it?”

The half-Elf gave him a huge shrug.

“Don’t ask me. Apparently, things can develop immunities to magic. Mold, diseases—it’s why you don’t always use [Cleanse] to clean even Wistram Academy. They have Golems with mops.”

Erin groaned.

“Magic-resistant super-viruses. Just what I need.”

More words that the adventurers didn’t quite understand, but both got the meaning. Ceria shrugged regretfully at Erin. Then she glanced at Gerial with a slight smile.

“Looks like breakfast is canceled, Gerial. Unless you all want to risk getting sick before the ruins.”

He sighed.

“No helping it, I suppose.”

“I can make food.”

Erin tried to sit up, but Ceria gently shook her head.

“Some rest will do you more good than anything else. And you coughing into the food won’t do anyone any good.”

She was right, and Erin sagged back into her seat.

“Sorry.”

“Don’t mention it.”

Gerial was already standing and stretching. He was hungry, but it wouldn’t be the first time he’d missed or deferred breakfast until a later date. He nodded at Erin.

“We’re going into the city. I think Calruz is already gone, but the others are still asleep. Don’t worry about feeding us—they can always go into the city.”

Ceria looked surprised. She glanced upstairs.

“Calruz is gone? I didn’t hear him moving.”

“I don’t think he slept. He went after the bug—ah, I mean, the one called Pawn.”

Erin sat up in her chair, suddenly wide awake. She stared around the empty room.

“Pawn?”



——



Pawn of the Antinium had not slept since the night. It wasn’t as if he’d missed much sleep, though. Erin Solstice had sung well into the morning, so it was only an hour or two later that he sat outside the Wandering Inn, thinking.

And suffering. He could still feel his missing appendages, or rather, the places where they should be. It felt…horrible. Horrible in a way he couldn’t describe, not to be able to move properly. But there was nothing he could do, and at least the pain had stopped.

Small mercies. But the memory of how he had lost his limbs still haunted him. And yet the memory of what had happened last night was with him as well. He still heard the music, still felt his soul shifting, hurting, rejoicing as he heard Erin sing.

Pain and wonder. They fought for dominion, but the pain was nothing compared to the wonder that still filled him.

So he sat and thought. He thought of many things, from his role in the Hive as it had been to what it was now. He thought about what he had suffered and what was happening. He thought about many things and had no answers. But when he thought about Erin Solstice, he felt something else.

And he had no words for that emotion. And it was troubling. In a good way and a bad way, but enough so that when the Minotaur stomped towards him, Pawn was almost glad of the interruption.

“You.”

Pawn inclined his head respectfully. He didn’t know if he should, but all he knew was his role as a Worker. Yet he wasn’t one anymore. Should he be respectful? It seemed appropriate.

“Adventurer-Captain Calruz. How may I help you?”

The large Minotaur scowled down at Pawn. His eyes were shadowed, and he looked tired. And angry. He’d been walking outside by the looks of it, but now he stopped and stared down at Pawn.

“Answer me something, insect. Why did you not fight?”

Pawn stared up at Calruz.

“I’m sorry?”

The Minotaur glared at Pawn. He jabbed a finger at Pawn’s chest.

“You. Why did you not fight? When you were being tortured by your own kind—why did you not resist? Are all of your kind cowards or do you not have any pride?”

The question was so surprising to Pawn that he took a few moments to respond.

“I had no right to resist. The one who took me—he was the Prognugator. He judges other Antinium. Our lives are his to use.”

Calruz looked disbelievingly at Pawn.

“So. You would allow death and dishonor to befall you because of mere rank? The House of Minos respects rank—but even Prince Khedal or our King would expect to be challenged if they spoke or acted madness. Have the Antinium no such sense?”

Pawn did not know what he meant—but he did know his Hive, so he replied slowly. Honestly.

“The Antinium have no honor. And I am—was a Worker. My life is for the Hive. If my death is required, I will die.”

For a long moment, Calruz stared at Pawn. Pawn held his gaze, wondering if the Minotaur would lash out at him. It had happened to several Workers before. But the Minotaur just snorted angrily and turned away.

“All that I should have expected from a slave.”

He stomped towards the door and flung it open. Erin crashed into his chest, and the Minotaur blinked at her.

“Pawn!”

She spotted the Antinium and froze. Pawn got to his feet and nodded at her.

“Erin. Is something wrong?”

Erin sagged, and some of the color returned to her pale face.

“You scared me! I thought you went back into the city—!”

“I was about to. I would not wish to trouble you—”

“No!”

Pawn was surprised by the vehemence in Erin’s statement. She grabbed him.

“You can’t go back! Not to that—that evil guy!”

“Ksmvr?”

“Yes!”

Erin nodded. She gestured towards her inn.

“That guy—I’m going to—well, I’d like to—what’s more important is that you stay here. Not in that stupid Hive. I’ll make a bed for you, and you can stay as long as you like. Free of charge.”

Pawn stared at the inn and then at the two adventurers who’d followed Erin outside. He shook his head.

“Your offer is most kind. But I belong in my Hive.”

“What?”

His words seemed to shock the others. But Pawn was used to that. He tried to explain.

“I am missed. I must complete my duties.”

“But Ksmvr—”

The name made Pawn shudder, but only slightly.

“He will not harm me.”

“Bullshit.”

Pawn met Erin’s eyes steadily. He remembered her holding him. Remembered her strange warmth. The music was still in him.

“He will not harm me, Erin. He has determined that I am Individual. He will not question me further. And I will be protected there. Now that it is known I am Individual, I am—important.”

“Important?”

That seemed to surprise Erin. And her surprise surprised Pawn. How could she not realize? But he had learned how little others knew of the Antinium. But surely she understood this—

“I still don’t trust that Ksmvr guy. He’s dangerous.”

“He was merely fulfilling his duties. But once the Queen is told, she will summon me. I am sure of it.”

This didn’t seem to reassure Erin at all. She stared at Pawn anxiously, not seeming to understand the great honor this would be.

“The Queen? And where was she while he was stabbing you?”

“She is occupied at the moment. It is the Rite of Anastases.”

“The what the what?”

Pawn shrugged. It was a convenient gesture he had learned, shrugging. He noticed that the half-Elf was staring at him intently behind Erin as the Human and Minotaur talked.

“I do not know. I only heard what was spoken in passing. But it is an important ritual that cannot be interrupted. I…sense that.”

Erin stared at him. She did not understand, and Pawn worried that she would try to keep him. That would lead to conflict, and he could not allow her to be hurt. But the half-Elf spoke to him.

“You—ah, Pawn. Can you tell me something? What do the Antinium want?”

“To work for the Hive and the Queen.”

It was an automatic response, and not the one she wanted. Ceria shook her head.

“I’ve heard that from every Antinium—I mean, what do they want here? The Antinium have made war for two decades. They never leave their Hivelands—except during the last two great wars, and they only settled one Hive in one city in the entire world. The Blighted Kingdom hates them, and no one knows what your people want except to conquer. The Antinium are united as far as I’ve heard. Completely. You’re all loyal to your Queens. So…why did this Ksmvr take you and—and question you?”

More hard questions. Pawn tried to answer as best he could.

“We came ten years back. To make…make something. I do not know. I do not know what. But it was decided. The Queens sent a single Hive to the city. Paid in gold for a place with those not of the Hive. To make something. A new kind of Antinium.”

It seemed Ceria and Calruz were listening hard to this, though making sense of it was beyond them and Erin. Ceria bit her lip.

“And this Rite of…does that relate to it?”

“No. Yes. It is important. I cannot tell you what it is. I was not told. I can only sense that it requires all of my Queen’s attention.”

“But when she’s done with it, she’ll want to see you, is that right?”

“Yes.”

“And you’re important.”

“Yes.”

Easier answers. Pawn saw the light of comprehension in the half-Elf’s eyes. But Erin still did not understand. Pawn saw that too. But the half-Elf did. She tugged at Erin’s arm.

“I think I get it. Erin, Pawn needs to go back to his Hive. You can’t take an Antinium away from the Hive. If you do—they spare no effort to reclaim their lost. Or if it’s impossible to reclaim them, those Antinium die.”

Erin’s heart sank.

“They do?”

Only in times of war. Pawn knew with absolute certainty his Queen would never order him to die. He was too important. But the lie—

“That is correct. I would be in jeopardy or place you in danger by remaining.”

It hurt him to lie to Erin. But it was partially true. Once his Queen learned of his nature, she would spare no effort to reclaim him. And if Ksmvr tried to reclaim him and brought soldiers—

The thought of it was too much to bear. So Pawn lied. He lied to protect the one called Erin Solstice, the innkeeper who played chess and who sang. The one who had given him his individuality and more things than he could think. The one who was important. The one who the other Workers…

Admired. Perhaps that was the word for it. But Pawn thought it wasn’t the right word. What Erin was to the Workers was different. She had brought something into their stale lives and taught them that they had been living in boredom and monotony. She had elevated one of them, and so what the Workers felt for her was not admiration. It was something else. Another word.

But Pawn had no idea what that word was.



——



Pawn left. Ceria and Gerial left with him, and Calruz stomped off when he learned Erin was sick. They left her alone.

She felt bad about it. Upset that Pawn was leaving. Emotional. She threw a cup of water at Toren.

She hated being sick. And she was so tired—she’d barely gotten, what, a few hours of sleep? So Erin put her head down on her pillow in the kitchen. Just for a short nap. It was just a bit too much.

Before she knew it, she’d fallen asleep. All things considered, it was good for her. Erin was so tired, emotionally as well as physically, that nothing could rouse her. Not even Selys screaming when she saw Toren.



——



Pisces heard the scream and debated running. But the odds were quite good that there were adventurers still in the inn and therefore quite good that the screaming didn’t mean anything too dangerous was happening.

Still, he cast [Invisibility] before he entered. It was a wonderful spell. A Tier 4 magic like this afforded him far more safety than any armor and allowed him a number of useful opportunities as well. It had been worth the month of study it had taken to master it.

Nevertheless, Pisces poked his head cautiously through the inn’s door. Safety was paramount. He would run at the slightest hint of trouble—

But curse it, Erin Solstice might be in trouble. And after last night, he couldn’t just abandon her. Not just because he’d heard what those arrogant Gnolls had said. They might be stealthy, but they relied on their noses too much. Pisces smelled exactly like the outdoors because he never bothered to wash. Another advantage.

And the music. He couldn’t forget the music. An [Immortal Moment] indeed. All of it meant—well, it meant—

It meant he was doing something stupid, which Pisces regretted. He readied several spells as he looked around the inn. If it was a monster, he’d attack and retreat. That was all he could do. More than he should do, really.

There was no monster in the inn. Not unless you counted the skeleton, and Pisces wasn’t afraid of his own creation. The cowering female Drake didn’t seem to share his opinion, however.

Pisces relaxed and let the invisibility spell end. His heart was beating far, far too fast. Curses. He recognized the Drake. She was a female receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild, the one who often talked to Erin. Selys Shivertail.

She was still whimpering and trying to shield herself from Toren as the skeleton stood watching her. Pisces shook his head. Non-mages. They were so…

He looked around for Erin Solstice. She was nowhere to be seen, which was inconvenient. He had hoped for some food—

Pisces was used to wandering into the kitchen of the Wandering Inn for food. He’d done it quite often, and so it was quite a shock to him when Toren shot out a bony arm to block his way. He yelped and stumbled backwards.

“What are you doing?”

His creation studied Pisces. Toren didn’t reply—not that Pisces had given him the ability to speak. The mage paused and gestured with his fingers.

“Move aside. I require sustenance.”

A flicker of hesitation—and then the skeleton shook his head. Pisces frowned.

“I am your creator. Move aside.”

Another shake of the head. Pisces frowned darkly. This was wrong. But of course, he had expected complications when he’d created this skeleton. He just hadn’t expected the spell-weaving to interfere with the obedience of the skeleton—

“Move.”

The skeleton clattered its jaw at Pisces and raised a finger to shush him. He blinked at it.

“What are you—I, Pisces, order you to move aside and let me pass.”

Another shake of the head. Pisces ground his teeth. He was about to try something more drastic when something slapped the back of his head hard. He staggered and looked around.

“You!”

Something was attacking him. Pisces yelped as Selys advanced on him, hitting him with her fists.

“You’re the one who made this—this thing, aren’t you? You evil, wretched—!”

Selys yelped as Toren caught her hand. She nearly screamed, but the other bony hand covered her mouth. Pisces froze. Was his creation going to—?

Toren held Selys in a grip of death. Very, very slowly he removed his hand from her mouth and raised it to his own. One finger went up, and he shushed her.

Selys quivered as she nodded. Toren gently let go of her hand. Then the skeleton pointed inside the kitchen.

Both Pisces and Selys stared inside the kitchen and saw Erin curled up into a ball, still sleeping somehow. They exchanged a look.

Toren moved back in front of the kitchen entrance and stood there, a sentinel. He stared pointedly at both mage and Drake. Slowly, the skeleton reached for a sword belted to its bony waist. It unsheathed the blade an inch. They backed away.



——



“What was that?”

“It was my creation. A skeleton. It was merely guarding its master, Erin Solstice.”

“You created that thing?”

Selys stared at Pisces, horrified. He raised his nose at her.

“Of course. It is a bodyguard for Erin and an able servant.”

“It’s an undead monster. And you—I thought you were just an [Illusionist] scaring poor people. But you’re that [Necromancer] Relc was talking about, aren’t you? Well, you leave Erin alone! She doesn’t need you bothering her!”

“I am a favored customer at her inn. I have every right to be there.”

“You had a bounty on your head until a week ago! You stay away from her or I’ll—I’ll—”

He sneered at her.

“You’ll do what? Hit me? I’m a mage.”

“And I’m a receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild. I’ll put a twenty-gold bounty on your head if you so much as raise an undead anywhere within twenty miles of the city.”

The sneer twisted upside down into a look of sudden concern.

“You—you don’t have the authority to do that.”

“Try me. And get out of my way!”

“I am going to the city. With Erin…indisposed, I require sustenance there.”

“Then walk behind me! I don’t want to be anywhere near you!”

“I am entitled to walk wherever I please. If it bothers you so much, you may wait.”

“You flesh-faced jerk—”



——



Rags watched curiously as the arguing Drake and mage stormed past her. They didn’t even notice her—not that she was practically visible in the long grass anyways. Her dark green skin camouflaged her well, and if she closed her eyes, she could practically disappear at times.

The other Goblins made her a bit more noticeable of course, but amazingly, Pisces and Selys had managed to miss them as well. And it was hard to miss thirty-odd Goblins.

It didn’t matter much anyways; Rags shook her head and walked towards the inn. She snapped at the Goblins following her, and they dispersed into the grass while five waited outside the inn. As an escort, they were important, but the inn was a peaceful area. Besides, her scouts had already determined the inn was empty aside from the skeleton and Erin Solstice.

Thus, when Rags stepped into the inn, it was only Toren that saw her. Now free from the eyes of her followers, Rags took a moment to wince and feel at her side which was in complete agony. She chattered to herself as she prodded the huge bruise, but determined it wasn’t worth wasting a valuable healing potion over.

The skeleton took little heed of the Goblin except to assess how dangerous she might be. It noticed her frowning as she searched for Erin Solstice and mentally sighed again.



——



Refreshingly, Rags understood that Erin was sleeping and not to be disturbed quickest of all the inn’s guests that day. The small Goblin wasn’t happy, but Toren didn’t have to dissuade her from entering the kitchen.

Instead, the Goblin hopped up onto one of the chairs and grabbed a chess board. She muttered to herself as Toren stood patiently in his place in front of the kitchen. He stared impassively at the Goblin as she ignored him.

Perhaps someone who wasn’t an undead skeleton might have had a bit more of a reaction to Rags’ appearance. They might have questioned the cuts on the side of her face, the way she winced as she moved, or perhaps the glowing, orange-pink potion strapped to her belt. It was one of many valuable items that an astute watcher could infer had been looted from travellers.

But Toren wasn’t interested in any of that. Instead, the skeleton was troubled by his own thoughts. He was guarding his master, and that was well. But he had failed to guard a few days ago. He had lost to the Antinium, and that was wrong. Bad. He felt this should not be so.

But he was still only a Level 3 [Skeleton Warrior]. He had no way to level except in the [Barmaid] class, and Toren felt that this would not be particularly helpful.

Rags muttered to herself as she began playing a game of chess. Without any opponent, she was forced to play both sides, which she was not happy about. She groused to herself in her own language.

Again, to any other listener, her words would be meaningless nonsense. The language of the Goblins was scratchy, garbled, and sounded vaguely like rocks being tossed into a blender. In short, incomprehensible to anyone who was not a Goblin.

But the dead spoke a universal language, so Toren understood her perfectly. He listened, at first mainly because he had no choice, but then with increasing fascination. He was fascinated by Rags’ comments about the [Strategist] class and chess and stared at the chess board.

The Goblin played one game by herself and then two. After she won and lost the third game, she looked up and nearly tumbled out of her seat.

Toren stood silently over her, staring down. Rags unsheathed her short sword, but the skeleton made no move to attack. It stared down at the chess board and then slowly sat across from Rags.

With mechanical precision, it began moving chess pieces to their starting positions. As Rags, disbelieving, watched, Toren chose a pawn and moved it forwards on the chess board.

She stared at the undead skeleton. Its fiery blue eyes fixed on her. Slowly, Rags got back onto her chair and stared at the board. She stared at the skeleton. Then she shrugged.

And began to play.



——



Ceria and Gerial walked through the streets of Liscor, taking in this unfamiliar city. They were walking down a street filled with restaurants and pubs. They were being watched.

Gazi’s eye flicked around the street, and she smiled as she walked forwards. Relc was headed straight for the leader of the Horns of Hammerad several streets over. The [Princess] was crouched at another table, under the cloak of an [Invisibility] spell, but she would not interfere.

The man was an average adventurer. Level 17 in the [Warrior] class—without much to distinguish him. But the half-Elf was as noticeable as the Minotaur. She could only be Ceria Springwalker, member of the Horns of Hammerad.

Just the ones Gazi had been looking for.





1.54


Erin woke up to the noise that defined her life.

The sounds of chess.

It was a soft sound, most of the time—one she’d learned in all of its subtleties. Chess sounded different.

The board mattered, for one thing. Erin usually played with wooden pieces—the ones from the DGT electronic chess board manufacturing line. It was the board chess tournaments used because of the sensors and electronic timer wired into the board itself.

It even had a chess computer you could buy to play against. It was high-tech, and Erin didn’t like it.

She loved the sound and feel of stone pieces, like the one she’d bought for her inn and had in her personal collection in her home. Her home in the real world, her world, that was.

How seldom she thought of it. And her parents. It was almost as if…unless she thought, she forgot they had ever been. Was she just blocking them out as a self-defense reflex? It hurt Erin, wondering what they were doing and thinking, looking for her, worrying.

But today was a day for feeling pain. And she indulged her own worry, wishing she could tell them—anything—until the sounds drew her upwards.

The soft clicking of stone on stone roused Erin gently. She sat up and reached for the rag she’d left near her head and blew her nose.

Of course, stone chess sets were a lot more fragile, and it was inevitable that someone would drop a piece sooner or later. That was why she only brought it out if she was playing someone who held the same reverence for chess as she did.

Yes—the rhythm told her other things, too. This was a slower chess game because one player was worse than the other. You could almost feel it. One of the two players was decisive, confident, and skilled enough to back up their abilities. They moved almost as soon as the other player did. But the other one paused and hesitated.

Different sounds for different players. Erin remembered the sound of cheap plastic being slammed down by impatient players, ones who grew angry when they were losing and excited over small gains. Bad players? Young players. Amateurs.

Professional chess players got mad too, but in different ways. Sometimes they got loud, but many went cold and focused everything in a silent battle. You could almost tell when a game was getting good, yes. Not by the noise—

But by the silence.

But in this case, the game wasn’t good. Erin could tell that in the moment she walked out of the kitchen, rubbing the sleep from her eyes.

Rags sat in front of a chess board, arms crossed while she stared at the skeleton sitting opposite her. Erin stared too. Toren’s presence threw her, but the chess—the chess was easy to understand.

It was a bad game. A very bad game. Rags had nearly all of her pieces—including her pawns—and Toren’s pieces were scattered.

Contrary to what people thought, a one-sided game wasn’t fun. Winning against an inferior opponent wasn’t fun.

Erin said as much after Rags effortlessly checkmated Toren’s king. Both Goblin and skeleton turned.

“I don’t know how you got him to play, but he clearly doesn’t know how to play.”

Rags shrugged indifferently as Toren sprang to his feet. Erin sighed. Her skeleton was playing chess. At this point, she wasn’t surprised.

“Sit down.”

Toren sat. Erin pulled a chair over and slumped down on the table, resting her chin on her arms. She stared at Rags. The Goblin was busy rearranging her side, probably in expectation of playing Erin.

The small Goblin looked—battered. Was she hurt? If she was, she didn’t show it.

“How many games did you play?”

Rags paused and thought. She held up both hands with all five fingers splayed out. Then she kicked Toren. The skeleton held out its fingers too, keeping two down.

“Eighteen games? That’s a lot. And how many did he win?”

Rags grinned. Erin snorted, but in some sympathy for the skeleton as it sat there.

“That’s what I thought.”

Then again, there were always a few players who relished beating down amateurs. Especially kids. Erin had been one of the whiz-kids, the child prodigies of chess growing up. She’d known a few kids her age that positively enjoyed bullying adults.

She, uh…Erin had to admit that a younger girl-Erin might have been one of those children at times. But she’d grown out of it. She thought she had.

It was a sign of immaturity. Erin frowned at Rags, and the little Goblin looked away, scowling. How old was she? How old was she in Goblin years?

“You should at least teach him how to play. Here.”

Erin pointed to another chess board, and Toren went to fetch it. Mechanically, she set up her side on both the boards facing her.

“I’ll teach you and get revenge, deal?”

The skeleton said nothing. But it sat obediently opposite Erin as Rags frowned at her board and carefully moved the knight forwards.

“It’s all about positioning, see? I don’t know if you saw me playing chess, but it’s a bit different than everyone thinks.”

Erin casually moved a piece on Rags’ board and then showed Toren.

“See this central area? Most openings or chess strategies revolve around capturing or controlling this spot. And that’s because your pieces need to move to get in position to attack the enemy. It’s not always about just killing other pieces. It’s about proper setup and luring the enemy into traps.”

She played a few moves with Toren, watching and commenting as the skeleton moved.

“Everyone—well, everyone where I come from—knows the basic openings. You have to if you want to play chess. But chess is as much about reading the opponent as it is setting up your board. You trick them, open holes in their defenses. There’s all kinds of ways to do that. Forks, pins, deflection, checks, skewers, batteries…”

She began chattering away, a chess enthusiast unloading on a hapless victim. Toren absorbed it all like a sponge as she played a very light game against him, letting the skeleton learn as it lost.

Rags muttered as she lost her queen. Erin pointed to Toren as he tried to move his king and shook her head.

“I’ll let you take that one back. Try not to move the king so much. You can castle him to move if you have to, but he shouldn’t be the piece you keep moving. That’s usually a bad sign.”

She smiled, nostalgia gripping her. She’d had to learn that the hard way, too.

“I know you want to because he’s so important and you want to keep him safe, but you do that with other pieces. They’re the king’s shield and sword. Yeah, you don’t move the king. Because—”

A flicker of memory. The words came out of Erin automatically.

“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”

Rags and Toren stared at Erin. She blinked. That was it. She remembered.

“Oh. Um. That was a little rhyme I made up when I was a kid. It—it’s important.”

It felt that way, but Erin couldn’t remember why. It was just a silly thing she’d made up. But—

“Where was I?”

She stared at the board and found she had a way to checkmate Toren. She showed him it and then glanced at the fuming Rags.

“Why don’t you try again? You’ll probably lose, but—”

Erin stared at Toren. It—he—it was an undead creature. Who knew how fast they could learn? It wasn’t as if he had a bad memory—he didn’t have a brain. Erin was suddenly gripped by curiosity, probably just as Rags had been. She wanted to see Toren play.

Carefully, she showed Toren a few classic openings and played slowly through another game as she crushed Rags again. Then she set up a board for the Goblin and skeleton and sat back.

“Do you get it? Let’s see.”

Rags and Erin waited. After a moment, Toren moved a piece. Rags countered. The game lasted for about sixteen more moves before she checkmated him.

“You don’t get it.”

Toren clattered his jaw. Erin sighed.

“Don’t try taking your rook out so quickly. Remember—capture the center at the start and reinforce. Try again.”

He did. Two games later, Erin had to face facts.

“Great. My undead skeleton sucks at chess.”

It wasn’t that he was bad, it was just—

Okay, he was bad. Erin saw it as she played Rags and Toren at the same time. He was just an amateur.

Which was totally fine. But it was a marked contrast from the Antinium and Rags. The Workers might have been inexperienced, but they were fast learners who memorized openings and counters with ease. And Rags was gifted.

Compared to that, Toren was just normal. Not hopeless—she could see his game had improved from the travesty it had been before her coaching. It was just that he had no spark.

Erin sighed. She took one of Rags’ knights and ignored the little Goblin hissing in anger.

“Check.”

It was a shame. But there was something in her that was still happy. Even if her skeleton sucked, he was still playing chess. Even if she was sitting in another world, in an inn playing against a Goblin, she was still playing chess.

That was good. It made her feel at ease. It was the only thing that made her feel happy, really. Because it was the only thing she was good at. It was the only thing she knew how to do.



——



Ceria and Gerial walked through the city, talking. They were alone. Alone in a sea of Drakes and Gnolls and the occasional Antinium.

They were outsiders. But then, adventurers were always outsiders. They were used to it.

And perhaps if it had been another week, another place, they would have been laughing, joking, and exploring a new city. But this was different. They walked and talked seriously, ignoring the hostile looks they got from the locals.

It was easy to be swept away in the inn they’d found. It was a soothing place, and far enough away that they could relax. But here, in the city, they were too close. The Ruins were several miles away from the city, but they might as well have been next to the adventurers. Their nerves hummed, and their hearts beat a little faster in anticipation of what was coming.

“Soon.”

Ceria nodded. She touched the knife at her belt and felt the hidden wand strapped to her arm.

“Rot, I wish it were tomorrow. No wonder the other adventurers wanted to stay at the inn. I can’t relax at all, here.”

Gerial nodded. He stepped aside politely for a female Drake and ignored her as she flicked her tongue out at him.

“The, ah, local reception isn’t helping either.”

“Well, what do you expect? They don’t exactly like Humans down here, and I’m just another annoying adventurer. But that’s not what I’m talking about. You can feel it, can’t you?”

He could. Gerial was a veteran adventurer, and he sensed the same thing Ceria was tapping into. There was an undercurrent among the adventurers in the city. Fear—as well as expectation.

The Ruins of Liscor were a huge find, possibly the biggest in a decade. Untold and unplundered treasures were just waiting for the taking, the kind of rewards that could elevate any adventuring group into Gold-rank—or higher. But by the same token, the dangers were just as unknown.

“We still don’t know what’s down there. Cervial found someone who was willing to explore and map out the first level, but no one is willing to go any further.”

“And he hasn’t found anyone who’s ventured further?”

“No one who’s gone down too far past the stairs has ever come back.”

Gerial tugged at his belt unconsciously. His hand touched the pommel of his sword and then moved away as a Gnoll guardsman glanced at him.

That was it. That was the fear. Something was down there, and whatever it was, it was deadly. So much so that the treasure-lust of the other adventurers was being kept at bay.

What might be hiding down there? A bagrhaven? A nest of them, perhaps. But something that could kill a team of Silver-ranks without letting any of them live—

A trap? A colony of wurms? Some—some kind of undead army? Or—Gerial’s blood ran cold at the thought—had they dug up the burial site of one of the Old Things?

No. No, there was no sense in thinking of it. But that was the thing. Uncertainty was keeping these adventurers at bay. Once they knew what was down there, those who could take on the threat would band together and deal with it in a heartbeat. Adventurers would swarm over the ruins, stealing, fighting each other, trying to grab as much as possible.

All it took was the first, brave group who would uncover the secrets below and pay with blood. And for once, it was the Horns of Hammerad who would be paying that price.

“Hey.”

Gerial blinked and jerked in surprise as the elbow caught him in the side. He glanced down at Ceria and saw she was staring up at him.

“Don’t go panicking on me, now. We’ll be fine, so stop worrying.”

He smiled, but Ceria’s jab had brought him back into reality. Casually, he rubbed at the spot she’d hit, wondering if he’d have a bruise.

“Someone has to worry. As far as our leader is concerned, this is going to be a simple extermination request, nothing more.”

Ceria made a face.

“Calruz is arrogant. But he’s confident and bold, which is why he’s perfect for a vice-Captain like you.”

Gerial felt the statement should have been reversed, but he smiled at the compliment anyways. Then he frowned.

“The [Illumination] spell. How’s it going?”

Ceria shrugged.

“My mastery of it is—incomplete. I’ll keep studying, but my best guess is that I’ll be able to cast it once and then I’ll need a mana potion. It’s too exhausting to use multiple times in a row.”

“Once should be enough. Just so we have an area permanently lit to fall back to.”

“We’ve got the formations worked out. Stop—”

“Yes, yes. And supplies are underway. It’s just—”

“I know.”

Ceria patted Gerial on the shoulder.

“I know, believe me. I’m feeling it too. But we’ve planned for as much as we can, and we’ll pull out the instant there’s trouble. Don’t worry.”

He smiled at her. It was reassuring to have someone as old as Ceria in the group with him. She was over sixty years old, and if she hadn’t spent all that time adventuring, he was still glad she was here. In truth, he felt it was she who should be the vice-Captain, but she’d always refused.

Mainly because she didn’t want to do all the logistical work.

Their talk turned to lighter things. Neither Gerial nor Ceria were new to adventuring or the risks of exploring dungeons. Gerial had been an adventurer for eight years—Ceria for fourteen.

“Say we do get gold and gems rather than a magical item. We have the largest shares after the Captains. What would you buy?”

Ceria smiled and eyed a few carved bracelets on display in a Gnoll’s shop. The large Gnoll woman eyed the half-Elf and bared her teeth politely, gesturing in an invitation. Ceria waved her hand, and they continued on.

“If I have enough, I’d like to buy another spell book. All the ones I have I’ve more or less mastered. With enough gold—a few hundred pieces more—I could buy a book with a few Tier 4 spells.”

“Just that? If the reward is all Calruz thinks it could be, you’d have a lot more money than that.”

Ceria raised an eyebrow at Gerial.

“You’ve never bought spell books, have you? Just one costs several hundred gold or thousands, and that’s for low-Tier spells. I’ve been saving up all this time just to buy one with a Tier 4 spell.”

“But if you leveled up your, um, [Mage] class, you’d learn those anyways, right?”

The half-Elf ran a hand through her hair distractedly. It was messy because she didn’t always comb it, and he resisted the urge to offer her his comb.

“Right, but—it’s complicated. There’s no guarantee which spells I’d learn, and besides, I’d need to level up quite a bit. But with a spell book, I could study a spell and learn it in a few months.”

“A few months?”

“A month, a year, two years—so what? If I mastered just one good spell, my Level would increase. And then we could take on stronger monsters.”

Gerial shook his head.

“A good thing I was never born with a talent for magic. I don’t have your patience—or your time.”

“Oh, and then what would you buy?”

“Armor. And a good sword. Or maybe just a magic ring.”

Ceria laughed.

“Not too adventurous, are you?”

Gerial smiled as he shook his head, a warrior talking to a mage.

“A good set of magic armor? I’d be able to fight without worrying about some monster clubbing my helmet in every five seconds.”

“I suppose. It just seems like a waste, that’s all.”

“Every bit counts. If I had good armor, I could worry about other expenses. But that’s the first step.”

“True enough.”

Money. It was such a simple thing. But it was the bane of an adventurer’s existence. They earned more than skilled workers, but to keep adventuring, they needed more. The Guild had its own fees for enrollment, armor repairs and healing potions were expensive, and an injury could leave one out of work for months. It was so hard to earn money.

“A good sword.”

Gerial murmured into his mustache.

“If I had that, I could polish my sword skills. Rank up. Start earning a Gold-rank adventurer’s pay…”

“And then perhaps you’d be able to talk to a certain Runner without needing me to push you, hm?”

Gerial turned red.

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

“Of course you don’t. You Human—no, you males. Idiots who fall in love with the first exotic female you see. You and Calruz both.”

Gerial took the ribbing with good humor, although he didn’t point out that the first exotic female he’d ever laid eyes on was Ceria. It would have made the half-Elf blush and then retreat. Or—worse—engage and discuss the matter frankly. He had learned long ago that her heart had been closed long ago to Human men.

Nevertheless, he was quite glad when he spotted a familiar face sitting at an outdoor stall, eating pieces of roasted meat off of a skewer.

“Sostrom!”

The mage looked up and grinned around a mouthful of food as Gerial and Ceria sat to join him. They ordered a skewer of their own as the Drake shopkeeper rotated the sticks of meat over a fire.

“I saw you two had already left. The innkeeper—Miss Solstice was sick, so we all took our leave without breakfast.”

Gerial nodded. He’d had a late breakfast with Ceria, but his appetite returned quickly as he inhaled the scents of roasted animal.

“Have you seen Calruz?”

“Not since last night. Why?”

“He left the inn, and he hasn’t slept since last night, I think. You know what he’s like when he’s irritable.”

Sostrom made a face.

“Let the Watch deal with him. I don’t get paid to restrain him when he causes trouble.”

“If he gets arrested before we enter the Ruins—”

“The city will let him go if we pay a fine. And they’ll be happier to let him fight monsters than cause trouble in jail.”

There was truth in that statement, so Gerial let it go. He twisted around to look towards the gates where the inn lay.

“So. A strange [Innkeeper] we’ve met. I’ve never met stranger, have you?”

The half-Elf frowned.

“…A few that are weird. I heard there’s a former Gold-rank [Innkeeper] up north. Terrible fellow. Sometimes they’re characters, but yes, she beats the lot for originality. But it seems we’ve run across more than one strange girl as of late.”

“Ryoka.”

Gerial accepted a stick of meat and handed over coins for both him and Ceria. He bit into the hot meat and glanced at Ceria.

“What Yvlon said the other day. You’re sure she has no levels?”

Ceria shrugged.

“That’s what Cervial said. And Yvlon seemed to know something about her as well.”

“The entire incident was unfortunate.”

“It was her fault.”

“Perhaps, but Yvlon needn’t have challenged her. That wasn’t a fair fight no matter how you look at it.”

That was true. Gerial looked at Sostrom.

“You’re right. I’d forgotten because she won, but since when do the Silver Spears fight civilians?”

“Let alone in armor. Even if it was bravado, Yvlon would have never taken that fight normally. Makes you wonder, don’t it? What Yvlon knew. Or—what her aunt told her.”

Gerial and Ceria exchanged a quick glance. Gerial whistled long and low under his breath.

“Lady Magnolia.”

Sostrom nodded.

“There’s a name that tells you how important she is.”

Gerial scratched at his chin as he glanced at the Human [Mage] for clarification.

“Yvlon important? Or Ryoka important?”

“Ryoka. I hear Yvlon doesn’t lean on her family connections or even her brother, who’s also a Gold-rank adventurer. But Ryoka has Lady Reinhart following her every move.”

The Human [Mage] nodded again for emphasis. He scratched at his forehead under his pointy hat. Sostrom was completely bald, and as such, wore his mage’s hat whenever possible.

“That object I repaired, her fist-fighting skill. Her lack of levels…it’s enough to interest me, but why a scion of the Five Families? There’s something else to her, mark my words.”

“I hope she doesn’t do anything rash.”

Ceria snorted into her food. Gerial made a face.

“You know what I mean.”

“Just hope she survives. Once we’re done here, we can ask her more questions.”

“It could be a while if these ruins are as deep as they seem.”

“She’s a big Human. She’ll be fine.”

“Well, since we’re on the topic of secrets…what’s the story behind you and this Pisces character? I thought I saw him last night, but you two hardly shared a word.”

“That was intentional. I get a headache whenever I have to talk to that idiot for too long.”

Ceria sighed, but Sostrom frowned.

“You might make fun of him, but he is a graduate of Wistram when all is said and done. And that display with healing Ryoka’s leg was nothing short of phenomenal. I certainly wouldn’t want to test myself against him.”

Gerial blinked at Sostrom. While Sostrom was the lower-level and self-trained [Mage] in the Horns of Hammerad compared to Ceria, Gerial had still grown to appreciate his ability. He couldn’t cast [Fireball], but he had a lot of good tricks and Ceria respected him. That was high praise.

“This Pisces is that good of a mage?”

Sostrom nodded seriously.

“I sensed it. He has quite a few levels on me, I suspect. Perhaps the same as our Ceria?”

Both men looked over. Ceria scowled and shrugged.

“Maybe. But he’s still an idiot.”

“An idiot from Wistram.”

“He’s not…well, technically he’s a graduate. But some mages wouldn’t consider him one.”

“Wait. You said—”

The half-Elf looked unusually defensive. She began speaking faster, hunching her shoulders, and Gerial knew she rarely talked about her past—her upbringing, yes. Not Wistram.

“He was expelled. But you’re right. He was always at the head of his class whenever he showed up. If he had the money, he could have advanced quite highly. But he dropped out about the same time I, uh, ran out of funds.”

“And he was expelled for his experiments. Yes, I recall. But does he have any combat aptitude? We could hire him for the expedition.”

Ceria glanced incredulously up at Gerial.

“I wouldn’t trust that idiot with my back.”

“Aren’t you being a little too harsh?”

“No.”

“But what’s his level? A mage living alone like he is has to have some skills. And a [Necromancer] would be perfect if there’s a large amount of undead in the ruins. Come on, Ceria, at least tell us his classes.”

Ceria made a face.

“I—oh, alright. As far as I can remember, he has the most levels in the [Necromancer] class, but he knows quite a few mundane spells too. He might be Level 20+ just as a pure [Mage] if you want to rank him. And he knows at least one Tier 4 spell. He was always good at—”

“Excuse me.”

All three adventurers turned. Gerial and Sostrom blinked as they stared into one very large eye and a slight smile. Ceria dropped her half-eaten skewer of meat.

Gazi Pathseeker smiled politely at the three adventurers and bowed her head slightly.

“Greetings. I hope I’m not interrupting?”

There was a brief moment of assessment that Gerial and Sostrom went through. Their eyes noted the quality of Gazi’s armor. Unlike pedestrians, the brown and rust-red color of her equipment didn’t fool their eyes. Her armor was clearly high-quality, and her sword made the two adventurers look twice.

That would have already told them she was Gold-rank or higher. But Gazi wore no armband or markings to indicate her rank. That either meant she was unaffiliated with the Guild or—

Gerial cleared his throat and stood up from his seat. He tried not to stammer.

“Um, pardon me. But you wouldn’t happen to be…?”

“I am Gazi.”

They had never seen her face, but both men had heard her name. Instantly, Sostrom was out of his seat and offering her his while Gazi politely refused. Ceria was still staring.

When Gerial had calmed down slightly, he tried to be as accommodating as possible.

“Um, how can we help you Miss, ah—Adventurer Pathseeker?”

She smiled at Gerial. He felt a shock as her eye met his. In his stunned state, Gerial briefly wished Ceria would stop staring and be more respectful.

“You are members of the Horns of Hammerad, aren’t you?”

“Um yes, I mean, that’s correct. We are. All of us.”

“That is good.”

Gazi smiled again. It wasn’t a broad smile—rather, a mysterious small one that fit her perfectly. She nodded.

“I wished to speak with you.”

Gerial and Sostrom were agog.

“With us? You know our names?”

“Is it not appropriate? The Horns of Hammerad are well known in the cities around here.”

That was enough to inflate both men’s chests. Gazi’s eye flicked towards Ceria for a brief moment as she continued speaking.

“I have visited several Human cities to the north. And strangely, come back here chasing rumors. I hoped you could assist me.”

“Anything.”

Gerial breathed the words. The smile he got made his stomach jump.

“I have heard—from several sources—of a most extraordinary Human female in this area. A Runner. I believe her name is Ryoka Griffin. A levelless girl who braved the High Passes and survived. A most…interesting person in short. And I am told the Horns of Hammerad are her acquaintances.”

Gerial and Sostrom exchanged a glance. How much of a coincidence could it be? Gerial vaguely noticed Ceria coming to stand next to him.

“We do—we do know that girl! We were in her company only two days ago.”

Gazi’s smile widened.

“Ah. So you know her. Good. Tell me, is she all that people say she is?”

“That and more.”

Sostrom nodded eagerly. Gerial glared, but the bald mage had beaten him to the punch.

“She—well, I don’t know that she’s levelless, but another adventurer with [Appraisal] says it’s true. And she did survive the High Passes. And she has the favor of Lady Magnolia. And she runs barefoot.”

“Indeed? How fascinating. I should very much like to meet her. You wouldn’t happen to know where she is by any chance?”

Gerial and Sostrom both opened their mouths, but incredibly, it was Ceria who beat both of them.

“We don’t, I’m afraid. She moves around all the time, so it’s hard to pin her down.”

Gerial felt something on his foot and looked down. Ceria had stepped on his foot for some reason. And Sostrom’s as well. Why? He glanced at Sostrom and saw the other man was blinking and touching at his head.

But Gazi was looking at Gerial, and suddenly, his attention was focused completely on her.

“Ah, but I would dearly like to meet her. Would you happen to know where she stays?”

“Celum. There’s an inn she stays at quite often there, and she takes most of her requests there.”

Ceria stepped on his foot again. Gerial glanced at her, irritated. She mouthed something but then Gazi was speaking.

“Which inn?”

“The Bloody Tankard.”

This time, Ceria abandoned all pretense and jabbed Gerial hard in the side. He winced and looked down at her, confused.

Ceria sighed and shoved Gerial back. Sostrom interposed himself between the vice-Captain and Gazi, averting his gaze from Gazi’s eye. So did Ceria. She spoke to the air just over Gazi’s shoulder.

“Excuse me, Miss Gazi. But why the interest in Ryoka?”

Gazi’s eye shifted towards Ceria, but the half-Elf refused to meet her gaze.

“I would simply like to meet her.”

Her eye focused on Ceria, and Gazi’s slight smile grew a fraction. Ceria bit the inside of her lip until it bled.

“Well, you have the name of her inn. And we haven’t seen her. So if that’s all—”

“She was in Esthelm just two days ago!”

Ceria cursed and whirled to glare at Gerial. Behind her, she heard Gazi chuckle.

“And do you have any way of finding her now? Or perhaps you know where she’s going?”

“We do not.”

Ceria cut Gerial off. She glared at Gazi, focusing hard, channeling mana into her eyes as a shield.

“We don’t know anything else. So stop asking. We would like to be left in peace.”

Gazi was still smiling.

“But I have more questions to ask about Ryoka. And I feel you can answer them.”

“I’ve got nothing for you. So you can take your answers and shove them.”

Gazi blinked. Ceria gasped as the pressure on her vanished. The half-Gazer looked disappointed.

“Hm. You would not answer questions for me? I am a Named Adventurer, you know. And you are, ah, yes, Silver-rank. Tradition would dictate you help me to the best of your abilities.”

Ceria snapped at Gazi.

“I know who you are. And a former soldier isn’t the same as a true adventurer. We got our levels from fighting monsters, not killing people.”

“But I am still higher rank than you. I could be…troublesome to you if you refuse to help.”

“I don’t help the insane. You and your mad king can go to hell for all I care—”

Gazi didn’t so much move as blur. One moment she was smiling, posture relaxed, talking calmly to Ceria. The next, the edge of her sword was suddenly at Ceria’s throat. And she was no longer smiling.

“I do not suffer insults to my lord’s name.”

It took a second for the two men behind Ceria to react. When they did, Gerial swore and went for his sword and Sostrom reached for his wand. But they both froze as Gazi poked the tip of the razor sharp blade a bit further into Ceria’s neck.

“How inconvenient. And we were doing so well with politeness. But I will have an answer. But first—an apology. I will hear it from you on your knees, half-Elf.”

Ceria was sweating. The blade was not pricking her throat, but lodged into her skin. She was already bleeding. If it went in just another inch—

Perhaps it was because it had been so quick. Gazi hadn’t attracted attention when she’d drawn her sword because she’d moved so fast no one had seen it leave her sheath. But it was hard to ignore a drawn blade at the throat of a half-Elf in the middle of the street.

People began noticing the standoff and panicking in the course of a few moments. Within seconds, the pedestrians cleared out, and the adventurers could hear someone calling the Watch.

They were using a high-pitched whistle, which gave off a shrill whine that was impossible to ignore. Gazi didn’t lower her sword, though one of her smaller eyes rolled around in her head. Neither Gerial nor Sostrom moved either, and Ceria was already on her tiptoes. They knew how fast the Watch would react and didn’t panic.

The filthy girl hiding behind the stall was no seasoned adventurer, however, and she heard the whistle and thought it was for her. She rushed out from behind the shopkeeper’s stall, appearing in the street as her [Invisibility] spell failed.

Ceria was afraid to turn her head, but Sostrom and Gerial saw a blonde head of hair, filthy travelling clothes, pale skin, and the flash of magic. The girl raised an emerald ring, shouted something as she pointed at the adventurers, and then fled.

From her ring, a huge, thick tendril of what looked like spider web shot out, growing larger and spreading out. It flew at the adventurers like a bird.

Gerial and Sostrom had seen the spell, and they were already diving for the ground. The cobwebs struck their backs and stuck to them, instantly anchoring them with tendrils of silk as strong as stone.

Ceria could do nothing but watch as the spider webs flew at her. They wrapped around her, and she fell to the ground, instantly cocooned. Gazi’s blade would have cut her—but the Gazer moved it out of the way just in time.

Gazi eyed the unfurling spider web and flicked her sword twice. The tendrils of webbing fell at her feet, neatly severed.

Gazi tsked in irritation and glanced around as the piercing whine continued.

The girl with the magic was nowhere to be seen. She’d already fled down an alleyway.

“How inconvenient. I suppose I must ask my questions another time.”

She looked down at Ceria, and the half-Gazer’s eyes were hard.

“But make no mistake. I shall see you again and ask more questions. Unless of course I find this Ryoka Griffin first.”

She smiled then, her slight, mysterious smile.

“Farewell.”

Gazi turned and strode off. Her legs were a blur as she disappeared into an alleyway.

“Damnation!”

Gerial cursed as he fought the webs. But they had anchored him to the ground.

“What kind of magical artifact was that? Sostrom, I’m pinned. Can you—?”

“My wand is caught!”

The Human [Mage] cursed and fought to tear his wand free of the webbing. Lying helpless on the ground, Ceria gulped a few times. It didn’t feel like her throat was perforated.

“[Flashfire].”

The thick webbing burned off of Ceria in an instant, giving off thick, billowing clouds of smoke. She yelped and cursed as the fire burned her. But in moments, the webbing was gone.

She stood up and unsheathed her belt dagger. Ceria ran to Gerial and Sostrom, working her blade into the webbing. It stuck.

She pulled the dagger away and pointed at it. A stream of fire burst from her fingers and engulfed the blade, turning it red-hot. Ceria began cutting again, and the webbing fell away.

Gerial yelped as the heated blade burned him, but Ceria yanked him to his feet.

“Complain later. Let’s go! If the Watch catches us—”

All three adventurers exchanged a look. They looked around the street. Sostrom pointed to an alleyway, and they ran as the Watch arrived on the scene, led by an irate Drake with a spear.



——



“We were under a spell?”

Ceria nodded as she, Sostrom, and Gerial walked back towards the inn. She winced with every step. Her skin was red and burned along her entire body. Only where her enchanted robes had covered her was her skin whole.

Sostrom fished out a potion and handed it to her as they walked. None of the adventurers slowed down, though. The commotion hadn’t spread to the rest of the city, but they had no desire to get on the wrong side of the Watch.

“Yeah. She was casting a [Charm] spell with her eye. It hit both of you the instant you looked at her. I barely blocked it.”

“But she was only looking at us.”

“Gazers can cast spells as easily as looking. A half-Gazer can do the same, it seems.”

“A half-Gazer? Is that what she was?”

Ceria glanced sideways at Gerial. The man was still pale from their encounter—and the magic that had worn off on him.

“You didn’t know she was half-Gazer? Seriously, Gerial?”

“I only know the basics. She’s a Named-rank. And she served the King of Destruction. What more do you need from me?”

He felt that covered everything you needed to ever know about Gazi. Ceria muttered darkly to herself as she rubbed the ointment over her burns.

“There’s a lot more to it than that, Gerial. She’s one of the Seven—and she was famous for killing every single [Spy], [Assassin], [Saboteur], and [Rogue] she ever ran into during his wars. Of all of them, she could be called the scariest. Let’s get something to drink back at the inn. I’ll tell you all about it as soon as we get clear of the area.”

“Tell us now. If she’s after us—”

“Not us. She wants Ryoka, and I don’t know why. Possibly the same reason Magnolia is interested in her, but that’s just a guess. It spells trouble, and we need to let everyone know as soon as possible.”

“Give us the details on Gazi before we get there. How strong is she? Where does she come from?”

This came from Sostrom, and Gerial was so amazed that the [Mage] didn’t know…

But Ceria nodded. They were all on different pages, so she decided to start from the beginning. She took a deep breath as she walked. The pain from her burns was easing, but she was still shaky. But an adventurer was calm or she was dead. So she collected her thoughts and spoke.

“I’ll tell you two from the beginning so we’re not making mistakes in the future. Right. Sostrom, do you know about the desert continent south or maybe south-west of here? Chandrar?”

“Too basic, Ceria.”

“Okay, okay. It’s huge, but there are several kingdoms to note. Like Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the largest Stitch-folk kingdom in the world. But there’s one that you definitely heard about—even if you don’t know Gazi. Everyone knew that kingdom, once. In one of them sleeps a king…”



——



“Good evening, Erin.”

Erin blinked at Gazi.

“Oh hi, Gazi. What’s up?”

Gazi smiled at Erin. She didn’t come in, although Erin held the door open for her.

“I won’t trespass here long. I just wished to tell you I will be travelling from this city for a while.”

“Oh?”

“I have business to attend to elsewhere. I just wished to know if you planned on travelling anywhere in the coming weeks.”

Erin blinked. Some people were strange. Gazi appeared on her doorstep and asked—she was staring quite hard at Erin with her huge eye. But maybe that was just how half-Gazers were.

“Nah. I’m not going anywhere in a hurry. Why?”

Gazi studied her with her central eye and then smiled.

“I was just curious. I would greatly enjoy having another meal here at a later date, and I would not wish for you to leave before then.”

Erin laughed.

“No chance of that, I’m afraid.”

“Well then. Until we meet again.”

Gazi stepped back, smiling. Erin stared at her, nonplussed. Gazi turned and paused. Someone was in her way.

“Excuse me.”

Calruz blinked down at Gazi. The large Minotaur had clearly not been intending to stop, preferring perhaps to run Gazi over or let her move aside, but when he saw her face, his hooves stopped dead in their tracks.

The Minotaur’s eyes fixed on Gazi’s large eye, and his eyes widened in recognition. He instantly made room for her to walk past him, giving Gazi a lot of space. She brushed past him with her faint smile.

“Your pardons, warrior.”

Calruz stared at her back as she left. He turned to Erin.

“Do you know her?”

“Sort of. Why?”

Calruz stared at Erin, back at Gazi’s disappearing figure, and shook his head.

“She looked like—it is nothing. You would likely not know her as an Izrilian.”

Erin felt a little insulted at that, but she didn’t correct the Minotaur’s error. He snorted, rubbed at his face, and stomped into the inn, nearly running her over. She hopped back and eyed Calruz. His eyes were bloodshot, and he looked tired.

“Well, can I help you, Mr. Grumpy?”

“Food. Drink. I will have both.”

He didn’t seem to care if she was sick. Erin sighed, walked into her kitchen, and got Calruz a sandwich. He eyed the hefty slices of ham and cheese packed between two flimsy pieces of bread, but devoured the meal without complaint. Then he sat back and eyed her.

Erin stared back. It was quite silent in her inn. Rags had left after losing to Erin several times, and Toren was busy cleaning dishes.

“Um. Nice day, isn’t it? I haven’t gone outside much, but I assume it’s nice.”

Calruz kept staring at her. Erin shifted in her seat. It was very quiet.

“It’s not a bad day when there are no monsters killing you, right?”

He kept staring. She avoided his gaze.

“It’s not raining, at least.”

“You should have fought.”

Erin glanced up at Calruz. The Minotaur was still staring at her with bloodshot eyes.

“Excuse me?”

“You. You should have fought.”

“Fought…who?”

“Last night. You went out to avenge the insect. You did not. But you should have fought.”

Erin opened her mouth and closed it for a second.

“You mean Pawn and Ksmvr. I didn’t go out to fight.”

“You did not.”

Calruz agreed. He shifted in his seat and put his elbows on his knees as he faced her.

“But you should have. It was a matter of honor. If you cared for the one called Pawn, you should have fought to protect him.”

“Um.”

Erin didn’t know what to say. Where had this come from? But Calruz was direct and as blunt as…his giant axe would be if it met her face. Well, not that blunt. She’d met chess players like him.

“I’m sorry, but fighting would have been prett—really stupid. I would have lost and gotten chopped up.”

“That is immaterial.”

“Um. No it’s not. I don’t want to die.”

He snorted at her. Erin almost expected to see steam coming out of his nose.

“Those who believe they will lose before battle begins have already lost.”

“Yeah, but I know I would have lost. That guy you wanted me to fight? Ksmvr? He hit me once, and I was seeing stars for an hour. He’s a warrior. I’m—not.”

“If you are not a warrior, you should become one. It is unbefitting for a female to be alone and not be a warrior.”

This conversation had taken another right-angle turn into weirdness. Erin tried to come up with a response.

“I have a skeleton. For…protection.”

Toren poked his head out of the kitchen. Calruz glanced at him and snorted.

“It is worthless. Weak.”

For some reason, Erin thought Toren looked insulted, but skeletons didn’t have emotions, did they?

“Well—I, uh, I can fight too. If I really have to. I’ve got [Bar Fighting] as a skill, you know.”

Calruz stared blankly at Erin. She blushed.

“I can fight. But I don’t want to pick fights I know I’ll lose. Look, this Ksmvr guy has levels in some kind of warrior class, right? He’d kill me if I fought.”

“There is more to strength than mere levels.”

“Yeah, but I’m not a Minotaur. I don’t have muscle. Or horns for poking people.”

Calruz rolled his eyes towards the roof.

“I refer to Skills.”

“Yeah, like I said, I’ve got one. And, uh, [Lesser Strength]. Forgot that.”

“That is not what I meant. I mean Skills for combat.”

Erin stared at Calruz with such complete incomprehension in her eyes that he seemed taken aback.

“You…do not know?”

“About what? Skills?”

“Activated skills. Combat skills.”

“…Noooooooo.”

He blinked at her. Then Calruz stood up.

“Follow me.”



——



“Observe. This is my Skill.”

Calruz pointed to the rock he’d found on the ground. It was a good-sized boulder that came up to Erin’s waist. She blinked at it and then at his axe.

“Won’t that break?”

“No.”

Calruz raised the massive battleaxe over his head like a woodcutter about to split a log. But then he spoke. Or rather—roared. Erin jumped as he brought the axe down.

“[Hammer Blow]!”

The axe met the rock, and the next thing Erin knew, Toren had tackled her to the ground. All was confusion as the thunderous impact stopped ringing in her ears and her bones. When Erin got up, she saw the boulder was rubble.

As in—a few split fragments of stone were all that remained at the impact site. The rest of the rock had split and shattered into a million pieces. Erin blinked at the rock and then at Carluz’s axe.

“Oh. That’s what you meant by Skills.”

“Yes. It is my sole Skill.”

“And it’s, uh—wow.”

Erin stared at the boulder.

“Wow. Wow. Uh. Wow.”

Calruz seemed happy that she was impressed. He stuck the battleaxe in the earth and pointed to it.

“That is what you should learn. Skills. If you must be alone, you must not be unprotected. You must fight.”

“But I’m not a warrior. I mean, I don’t have a class—”

Calruz snorted at Erin.

“Immaterial. Classes, levels, these are just additions. What you lack is the soul of the warrior. You must have it. A female must not be alone without the power to defend herself. The singer must not be silenced. You must be stronger.”

He pointed at Erin with a finger twice as wide as her own.

“I have decided this. I will teach you starting tomorrow. There are two days remaining before I go into the Ruins. I will have you learn to at least fight properly until then.”

Erin opened her mouth. She stared at the splintered rock and at Calruz.

“Um. Okay. Thank you.”

He nodded.

“I will rest now. My party will come soon. They must have food. See to it.”

“Uh—”

Calruz stomped towards the inn. Erin watched him go. She stared at the boulder. Slowly, she edged towards it.

The rock wasn’t warm from the impact. But it was sharp. Erin cut her finger.

“Ow.”

She stared at the blood, then heard a scuffling sound. She looked around and saw Toren next to the battleaxe Calruz had embedded in the earth.

The skeleton was pulling and heaving at the battleaxe stuck in the dirt as hard as it could. The heavy blade didn’t budge.

Erin sighed. She watched the skeleton as it scrabbled for purchase, pushing its feet into the grass as it tried to uproot the weapon.

“That’s just so sad.”



——



Weak.

Calruz thought the word aloud as he lay in his room and on the two beds Erin had pushed together for him. It was something he had never had to think about.

But she was weak. Pitifully weak. Normally, that was fine. He expected that of Humans. But she—

She was offensively weak. And it was wrong. It bothered Calruz. She should not be so weak. She had no right being so weak. Because there was something in her that demanded strength.

He was thinking about Erin. Or was it Ryoka? Either or. No—the Runner was strong. She was just not a warrior. She had to learn honor. Once she did, she would be a true warrior. If she gained levels, she would be worthy.

But Erin Solstice was different. Even now, Calruz could remember the music. It haunted him. It was wrong. It made him—

Weak? Weaker? It was not the music of his home. There were no pounding drums, no voices raised for battle. It was not strong music. But neither was it weak.

It was unique. And it should be protected. But she was weak. So she had to be stronger.

Calruz shifted in his bed, ignoring the groaning wood. She had to be stronger. If she were to perish, he would regret it. To let an innocent life end because of inaction was the worst strike against his honor. He would teach her.

But of course, it wasn’t Erin that Calruz wanted to teach. But she would be good—practice, yes. She was female. Ryoka was female. He would learn how to deal with Human females. Because at least one—two of them were worthy of respect. For different reasons.

A tanned face appeared in Calruz’s mind, and he saw a quick form dashing away from him. A bird, tethered to the ground. A hunting raptor seeking a home.

Beautiful. Fierce. And she had proper breasts, not like the small-mammaried females he kept running across.

He wondered where she was right now.





1.55 R


The sky always looked redder here. Whether it was the air taking something from the ground or the very nature of the land altering the atmosphere itself—

Even the clouds over the Bloodfields that separated the north from the south looked tinged by ichor. Reddened, like the earth itself, by blood.

Not just blood from a single battle or even a dozen battles or a hundred. This place had seen oceans of blood. Soldiers by the hundreds of thousands. It had probably buried millions of corpses over the long centuries of war. After all, it was here that north and south met every year for war.

How long ago the conflict had started, the [Merchant] didn’t know. Only that her father had talked about the Bloodfields as having been there as long as the Five Families. After the first wars had brought down Walled Cities and forced the Drakes and Gnolls to the south past the High Passes, the gigantic mountain range that divided the continent, armies had pushed each other back and forth, often spilling into north and south and destroying cities.

At some point, her father had told her that [Lords] of various families had petitioned the five great families of the north—Reinhart, El, Veltras, Terland, and Wellfar—along with the remaining Walled Cities—Manus, Zeres, Fissival, Oteslia, Salazsar, and Pallass—to relegate the fighting to one spot to prevent civilian deaths.

The Bloodfields, south of the Drake city of Liscor, had been chosen as that battleground after much debate. So—every year, for centuries, perhaps thousands of years by now, armies went to this spot to fight. Sometimes just token forces—other times entire wars in earnest. The fighting might spill forth after that, but this was where it so often began.

Here was the thing. The [Merchant] gazed grimly at the red grass, the red soil, and the deceptively flat ground that filled the valley and only route north. The caravan of wary [Traders] and [Merchants] were one of two groups on the road—they had seen no other travellers since they passed Hectval, and it would be rare to travel until winter snow fell in earnest. Despite the hazards of snow and the wretched travel conditions—this cold fall was pushing it.

“We might be too early. Are we too early?”

A nervous Drake was scanning the Bloodfields with an enchanted spyglass. He was Tellgre ‘Twodeals’. All his customers had learned that the Drake refused to let them purchase just one item. Hence his dubious claim to fame.

He was a Level 22 [Trader], and the Human woman walking beside a line of packhorses carrying her share of the caravan hadn’t yet managed to tell him he needed a better name and business model. Then again—she was a Human in Drake lands still, and she thought she’d leave that up to the others.

A Human. The first time the woman had come to Drake lands, she’d passed through the Bloodfields, of course; the only other ways were the even more dangerous routes through the High Passes or sea travel. Winter was safe enough…but she’d heard from travellers that it was Drakes who’d decided on the Bloodfields as the yearly battleground and forced the Humans to comply. She’d made the mistake of relating her father’s version of events and been given a cold shoulder the entire journey south.

Each side had their own story. One of the things she’d learned after nearly a decade of trading both north and south of Izril was to shut up and listen. Or watch.

So—the Human [Merchant] said nothing as Tellgre chattered. She just looked across the red expanse. The crimson grass did fade slightly and turn green around the edges of the Bloodfields. Then again—some of the yellow or purple patches might not be the grass changing with the seasons. Maybe the Bloodfields were expanding?

“Looks quiet. We’ll take the long way around.”

The Drake swung his eyes down to the woman as he lowered his spyglass. She saw his tongue flick out nervously as he licked his lips. He raised his voice—and she sensed more [Merchants], mostly Drakes, but also two Gnolls, glancing her way.

“You’ve done this before, right, Ysara? It looks good to you, then? I’ve never done the Bloodfields run before.”

Ysara, who her colleagues and most of the South simply knew as the ‘Silver Merchant’, just shrugged in reply. She was a Level 34 [Merchant]. Far more successful than Tellgre and, honestly, most of the others in the caravan. Despite some having entire teams of [Guards] and assistant [Traders] as opposed to her being the lone member of her party—she had minimal overhead, and a few Chests of Holding carried all her goods.

She dealt, predictably, in silver. Often just silverware, but she also sold weapons and, interestingly, alchemical items. Silver was something [Alchemists] paid for too, after all. As proof of the fine metals she offered, Ysara had a single blade hanging at her belt, for self-defense.

It had an old, ornate handle of treated silver that wouldn’t tarnish, and it bore the silver Dragon and shield of her family.

Not that any of the Drakes or Gnolls knew it by name. She doubted many cared. As far as they were concerned, she was just a Human. And she belonged to a minor noble house in the north, so it wasn’t anything to brag about. She was, technically, a [Lady] as well, but she didn’t level in that class.

To many Drakes and Gnolls she met, Ysara’s Humanity was the most fascinating part about her. The [Merchants] she was travelling with had been in her company for two months now, doing a circuit of cities trading their goods. They probably thought she was like most Humans. It might get funny once they got north.

After all, Ysara’s hair was indigo, painted a rich shade of the color, and rarely faded thanks to a [Magical Painter] she knew. Better than dyes—and she had a long earring with a bead of red jade dressed in gold on one ear and a tattoo on one arm of a trellis of gold vines clinging to a silver ship.

In the north, she’d be taken for a [Sailor] if anyone. In the south—she was a Human. Actually, Ysara wondered if she should remove the indigo in her hair. She…exhaled as she stared across the Bloodfields.

An unpleasant journey, this. Almost as unpleasant as going home, a long task that took months. So rare, in fact, that it had been…five years? Five, at least, since she’d seen her family. One reason was the Bloodfields.

“Calm down, Twodeals. The cold should have put the Bloodfields silent. If not—we’ll soon find out.”

That wasn’t exactly comforting coming from a senior [Merchant], Buleth, but no one should relax.

The Bloodfields were dangerous.

Ysara eyed the long, wide expanse of red grasses. She could see across the valley—but the Bloodfields weren’t just all red grass. Tall…trees…of pale white bark or something grew out of the ground in ten to twenty-foot spires.

No branches—just pale trunks. Were they trees at all? Well, they were called Watchertrees, and Ysara knew well what they did when active.

Her skin crawled just looking at them—and at the bulbous, fungoid growths lining the Bloodfields. They clustered in huge pod-forests in places, much like mycelium, but unlike fungus, some of these plants could grow as tall as regular forests.

Though…due to the cold, they were shrunken, silent, and, in theory, safe. Even so, the [Merchants] would be plotting a wide, wide course around the Bloodfields, across the edge of the valley where it rose into treacherous and inhospitable foothills.

You could try the foothills if you really had to get through the Bloodfields in the spring and summer, but good luck getting a horse or wagon through there without breaking a leg. Only Couriers like Hawk the Hare did any running like that—the [Merchants] had to pass near the Bloodfields.

“Damn this grass. We had better not break an axle. At least I’ve got [Lightweight Wheels].”

Buleth commented from his seat to Ysara, and she nodded.

“I heard there used to be a trade route passing along here. Whatever happened to that?”

The Drake was portly, had a skullcap with holes for his neck-spines, and had ocre-red scales. He grunted sourly as he flapped the reins, and his horse plodded forwards, towing a large wagon. He dealt in spices, often imported from Chandrar and through the City of Waves, Zeres, which he brought to the rest of the continent for fine prices.

“A road? If there was any, it’s long before our time. Probably before the Bloodfields expanded. Must have been swallowed up. Or abandoned.”

“Right. Has it grown recently?”

“Not much. Not much fighting of late. Tyrion Veltras comes down every year, but it’s not like the old wars. Then again, you’d know as much about that as I.”

She nodded and, again, checked the Bloodfields.

Here was the thing—once upon a time, the ‘Bloodfields’ had just been a stretch of land where armies warred. Ordinary grass and dirt and rock. But after so much death, the land had…changed. Creatures, plants had begun to adapt to the blood and grow dangerous.

So dangerous that armies sometimes lost more [Soldiers] to the Bloodfields than their engagements. But they came, to clear the Bloodfields of growths as well to kill each other. Sometimes, Ysara wondered which was more important. Because the Bloodfields spread. Slowly…but someday, future [Merchants] might have to dare the foothills to get north to Liscor. Or not go at all.

In the spring, even their wide course would have already attracted…attention. Even Buleth, a veteran, muttered to Ysara.

“I don’t like the Watchertrees. I think we’re in range. How far do some of them reach?”

“I’ve heard a thousand feet…”

Both stared at the spires of white.

“I’ve heard longer. I suppose we’re safe. Dead gods and Ancestors, I hate this commute. We should have gone later.”

She nodded.

“—But we’ll be first north and have the best markup. That’s what you said.”

The Drake hunched his shoulders.

“I know, I know! Alright, let’s not spook the newbies. I’m surprised you came, though. You hate this route as much as I do.”

Ysara made a face. Her hand strayed to the hilt of her sword, and Buleth eyed it. Despite being silver, she had wrapped the hilt with sensible leather to get a grip. It was worn—and he knew she could use the sword well. As a child, Ysara had been told she had a once-in-a-thousand years talent with the blade. Even her brother had claimed that he couldn’t best her, and he was a [Knight]. Her sister…

“My sister.”

“Hm? Oh, right. House…er…you know, I never asked which one. Not the Five Families. Visiting the family?”

Ysara’s smile was crooked, but Buleth either didn’t notice the Human’s nuance or pretended not to.

“I have to at least twice a decade, right? Besides, I heard something interesting is happening around Liscor. It’s just good business.”

And that was all she had to say on her personal affairs. Buleth didn’t need anything more, and nodded understandingly. Ysara, privately, didn’t relish going home. She wondered if it would be as awkward as last time. But family was family…she inhaled and caught that curious scent of the Bloodfields. Not blood…but something else. Something alien and exotic and unsettling. She walked on at a good clip, ready for trouble and hoping for none.



——



The Bloodfields were always dangerous, but depending on the company you took, they could be safer. And frankly—with Ysara around, Buleth, the leader of this group, felt better.

Though it occurred to him he didn’t know much about her outside her business. The [Merchant], Buleth, scratched at his chin as he slowly pulled out a puffed pastry of fried dough filled with Yellats and spices. Cheap and tasty. He broke it in half and offered her a bite, and she savored the taste in the cold air.

“What’s she doing in Liscor? That remote backwater’s got nothing in it. Their army are useful mercenary bastards, but Liscor’s got the Antinium.”

He shuddered, and all the Drakes in earshot winced. Liscor was…unique. Most [Merchants] regarded it as safe—but not a place to linger. A place to go and see once, though, just to see an Antinium outside the Hivelands without the chance of being killed. Plus, it was the closest city to the Bloodfields.

“I hear a dungeon’s popped up. My sister’s an adventurer.”

“Oh! I thought your brother was?”

“Him too. He’s Gold-rank. She’s Silver.”

Buleth had to shake his head.

“My, my. Your entire family really must be filled with high-level [Warriors]. You’re the most dangerous [Merchant] I know. Which—come to mention it—can I ask you not to embarrass my [Guards], Ysara?”

He nodded at a few sulking figures trudging behind his wagons. They glared at Ysara when she wasn’t looking, and their leader looked especially mad. She sighed.

“He challenged me to a duel, Buleth. I’m the lone [Merchant]. I have a reputation to keep up.”

“Fair enough.”

Another glance at her sword. Ysara decided to thank him for the snack. She hefted the scabbard up and unhooked it from her belt.

“Want to look if you’re so curious? I’ll sell your [Guards] blades at a discount.”

“What good is silver in a sword? Mithril now…although, this is a fine blade.”

Buleth eyed the sharp longsword appreciatively. Ysara smiled.

“It’s beautiful and an alloy, so it doesn’t tarnish. Stronger than regular steel is my claim—and some monsters hate it. But truthfully? The [Smiths] who make this just know their craft better than some dunce with a hammer.”

“Fair enough. And you get it from your home? They own mines or do they just have great smiths? I can see the crest. Very Drakish. Love the Dragon. Right out of the stories, eh?”

Buleth glanced up and saw another odd smile from that woman, but she was a good, honest [Merchant], unlike some real bastards, and she was well-spoken of. Dead gods, the Golden Gnoll herself was friends with the Silver Merchant…no surprise given their names.

“Actually? I get half of my arms from a Gnoll tribe. They just do the stamping with my crest. Heard of the Silverfangs? Their Gnolls are in Liscor.”

Buleth wasn’t up to date on Plains Gnolls, the tribal ones, but he knew them from somewhere.

“Ah, good sorts, I think. Not like Woven Bladegrass or…”

He hesitated and glanced at the Gnolls in the caravan. Maybe he shouldn’t say anything at all. They could get—touchy—and Drakes and Gnolls were not the best neighbors. Ysara filled in the rest for him.

“Good, honest sorts. Like most Gnolls you could meet.”

A Gnoll twenty-eight paces away snorted softly, and Buleth just bet he’d heard. Their damn ears. He agreed with Ysara but then nodded ahead.

“So—that group must be Silverfangs. I think I saw a few markings on them. Silver fang—like crescent? Biting teeth?”

“That’s their logo. Interesting. So that’s a group of Silverfangs up there. Warriors, judging by how much they’re carrying.”

Ysara turned her attention to the only other people crossing the Bloodfields. Given the relatively flat ground until you rode up towards the Floodplains of Liscor, another basin, the caravan could see the group of eighteen Gnolls ahead. They were making better time than the [Merchants]; they had ten horses. It looked like they were switching on and off, rather than riding the whole way, and they were as vigilant as the [Merchants].

One had waved at the [Caravan Guardmaster], but they’d not indicated they wanted to meet up—not here. Maybe tonight? Though Buleth had every intention of trying to get past the Bloodfields in a single day. It was about…four days to Liscor? A Runner could do it a bit faster, but once today was over, he’d sleep easy.

Aside from bandits. Would some be crazy enough to raid? Hectval’s alliance didn’t patrol around here—Buleth glanced at Ysara.

“How do you know they’re warriors? Could be just Plains Gnolls?”

She shook her head with calm authority.

“Plains Gnolls might go armed, but shortbows for their non-fighters at most. That lot? I see a [Shaman], long spears, longbows—they’re not going to raid us, Buleth. Don’t worry.”

“I never—”

He huffed and decided to give it up. Ysara knew trouble when she saw it. He sat back in his seat and decided he might try playing on the new chessboards he’d bought. He was going to try selling them; you had addicts all over Izril, and the game was new, if not as hot as when it came out. He had some lovely gemstone pieces he’d gotten from Salazsar for a song. His hope was a noble snapped up a board. Just one would recoup all costs.

Buleth was about to challenge Ysara to a game when the woman made a sound. She put a hand over her brow, squinted, and his heart leapt.

“Wait a second. Who’s that? Buleth, lend me your spyglass.”

“What? What?”

The Drake scrambled for his spyglass and tossed it at Ysara. She caught it, put it to one eye, and exclaimed.

“It looks like a Runner’s making the Bloodfields run!”

“Ancestor’s wrinkled tits, Ysara! Don’t give me a heart-attack!”

The Drake held a claw over his chest. He almost snapped at the Human woman, but Ysara didn’t give back the spyglass immediately.

“I’m—huh. That’s odd.”

Now that Buleth knew what to look for, he could see the distant, distant speck coming down the slopes that led to the Floodplains of Liscor. He grunted sourly.

“Not just one. Looks like four. At least—I think I see four.”

He swore he’d just seen three figures on the lip of the hill—but maybe not. Ysara swung the spyglass up, but missed them. She was focused on the Runner.

“Good speed on that Runner. Not horse-speed, but—City Runner for sure. She? Nice hips either way.”

Buleth brightened up a bit. He coughed to hide his reaction to that—Ysara sometimes made comments that the woman clearly didn’t realize a hot-blooded male Drake like he could take the wrong way. Or right way.

He was suddenly more interested in meeting this Human, but Ysara was frowning mightily.

“What’s so odd? Even Runners probably risk the Bloodfields run.”

“Yes…but she’s going straight down the center. Is she mad or did no one tell her—the Bloodfields can still be dangerous even in the cold!”

Then Buleth’s head snapped up. He saw the dot moving straight down the valley, and as Ysara said—the Runner was going straight down the center.

If she kept going, she’d end up in the Bloodfields. Ysara looked up at Buleth, and he cursed.

“No way a local Runner doesn’t know about the Bloodfields, Ysara. I bet this one will turn right or left.”

“Maybe. Or…maybe she’s from Celum. How well do you think the locals know the Bloodfields there? Maybe she’s on a big contract—where are the horses?”

Ysara looked around, and Buleth saw her striding off. She turned and tossed him the spyglass. He nearly pitched off his seat trying to grab it and called out after her.

“She has to know, Ysara! Don’t go racing off suddenly—the Bloodfields react to sound and movement!”

“It’s cold! And I won’t—as long as she swerves!”

The woman called back. Buleth shook his head as he put the spyglass to his eyes and watched the distant Human. He murmured to himself.

“Ooh. I see what Ysara means. She’s definitely not going to run through the Bloodfields, though.”

No one was that crazy. The Drake watched the Human running forwards. And then he glanced up.

“Four Runners? What are the odds?”



——



Ryoka Griffin felt like someone was holding her hand and pulling her. Pulling her so hard she couldn’t help but stumble forwards. An inexorable rip-tide—and unlike a person, she couldn’t yank free of that pull.

She felt that if she didn’t run—she’d fall flat on her face. That kind of tugging. Only, it wasn’t physical, it was in her head.

A blind rush forwards, and a goal in the back of her mind. Three days. Three days of running since Esthelm. Or—four?

She didn’t know. She only knew that she slept, ate, peed, screamed murder at birds, blasted angry music through her earbuds—

And heard the voice.

Find the Necromancer. Find Az’kerash. Deliver the letter.

That was her task. That was her—what she had to do. No question. No doubt. Her pride as a Runner, her commitment to her promises—it was like taking that and adding a second layer of certainty to it.

I’ve been put under a spell.

She was aware…that the mysterious half-Elf [Mage] had made her do this. But so what? She didn’t care.

She had nothing left behind her. Only smoke from all her burned bridges and shame. That was what made her run faster.

Shame.

Four days, and Ryoka still felt the impact of punching Yvlon in the face. She still saw Ceria staring at her looking so—disappointed. It burned straight through her. She had never, ever felt this—

No. Ryoka Griffin slowed as she crested a hill of grass and saw something odd in front of her. A red stain spreading out in a vast valley of grass. Fall’s cold air whipped at her raven-black hair, and she brushed sweat from her forehead and took a drink of water. Then the magic and guilt and shame pushed her forwards.

It was a beautiful red stain that looked—wrong. The longer she stared, the more it unsettled the young woman. But she didn’t run away from it.

It was like her. It should have been beautiful—red grass and strange plants she wanted to stare at when she got closer. She knew it was dangerous—but the old mage had said it was where the Necromancer could be found. Here—no, along the mountainside, right?

It didn’t matter. The Bloodfields were a wretched stain on the earth, not something marvelously unique.

Like her. A disaster. It didn’t really belong—and Ryoka Griffin ran straight and narrow down the valley. It was a beautiful day, and the sky looked deep blue…or purplish in places. The few clouds there were had some kind of orange tint to the undersides.

A magical day. A magical world. But—



——



I am the same. It’s not them, it’s me.

I did it. I went to another world. I went to Narnia, like the Lion, Witch, and the Wardrobe. I got a magic quest.

My parents? Gone. My past? Unknown. I could be anyone I wanted to be, and it’s happening again.

Disaster. People I’ve let down. As I run, I feel the pain in my lungs from pushing myself. My legs and arms are tired—and I keep running, keep pushing it.

I like the feeling of running, of giving it all up to the pumping of my arms and legs, the rush of blood. That’s pure. That’s—better than thinking.

But this time, I can’t escape it. My guilt.

I’ve done this before.

It falls in my head, louder than the voice telling me to find the Necromancer, louder than the screaming that I’m such a fool, louder—

Louder than the voice telling me to go back and apologize.

It’s not too late. Go back. Go back and apologize. Please. They were so good to you.

I know. I fucking know. Please stop. But the voices never stop. This is all me, of course. I’m just—separating them out. Perspectives.

Like warring demons in my chest. The first one is sad. Because—it knows, like I do, that this is all my fault.

I’ve done this before. I’ve had friends before this. Of course I have. Or were they ever my friends?

No, they weren’t. They just wanted to hang out with the senator’s daughter. State senator, comes from money, and they thought I was like them. Fuck them. Fuck Fals. And Garia. And Persua. AND PERSUA. And—

The Horns? I snap out of the fury filling me. That’s the third voice, I guess. Did my therapist—well, one of them—ever talk about that? My anger?

I’ve had a lot of therapists. A lot of therapy. Medications—and a lot of my parents pushing off my problems onto someone else to handle it. I—hate each and every one of them.

Hated? I’ll never see them again. I hope not. After all, the last one I think I literally threw a chair at. And hit.

My fault. Why did I do that? The poor woman wasn’t doing anything. She just wanted to help me.

Fuck her too with a rusted pickaxe.

The voices. I run faster, try to put more energy into my legs. I almost manage to drown them out—but I can’t sustain this pace. I’ve been drinking stamina and healing potions on and off—it helps me keep at max speed—but I don’t dare waste too many.

Why not? Why not pull out my ‘reward’ for doing all this? Not the gold, the wand of flames or whatever that guy gave me. Plus—a Potion of Haste?

Fire and speed. Sounds fun. The wand is supposed to be for the Bloodfields or self-defense? I’ve been tempted to try it out—and the potion. I want to. Imagine running even faster? I want to—but I need to save it.

So I just run, and the voices catch up. This time, it’s maudlin that sounds loudest. Maudlin guilt.

I’ve done it again. Why did I attack the Horns?

Calruz was arrogant. That bastard.

They cured my leg. My leg. I would have never walked again with that leg. Why did I hit him in the balls and try to beat him to a pulp?

Yvlon was a smug bitch…

No, she wasn’t. Ceria told me the truth. She put everything on the line for me, and I punched her. Why did I do that?

Then—silence. Because I really don’t have a good reason.

No, that’s a lie too. I know exactly why. I’ve done this before. Why…why can’t I be a good person?

Because I don’t deserve nice things. Fuck me too. This is what I do. Another world won’t change it. I hate me. I hate everything.

And when I get to that, my thoughts are in agreement. I just wanted to run. Why did it have to be so complicated? Magnolia. This is all her fault. No, Persua. Fals.

Or me.

And there it is. I keep running, straight for the Bloodfields. Necromancer. Deliver it. Keep silent about the man in the High Passes.

I want to go back and say sorry. But I’ve never said sorry and meant it.

I mean it.

I’m sorry, Ceria. Why did I do that?

Yvlon made me angry.

I thought I was happy, lately. I really did. My eyes are stinging, and I’m trying not to cry. Because that would be stupid. What do I have to cry about? Or rather, why start?

I’d never stop.

It’s not my fault. I keep hearing that refrain, a thousand times. Magnolia. That damn [Assassin]. Persua. And I agree, even now. There are so many assholes.

—But it hits me. Like a blast of wind in the face. A bucket of cold water. A realization, so complete and so simple I can’t describe it. Perhaps I thought this before, but now I realize it with all my heart and soul.

There have always been good reasons. Explanations for why things went sideways or bad. Here I am, running south on what might be a suicide mission.

And I don’t really care about that. I’m—almost excited to see what this Bloodfields is like. But I can’t concentrate. Because I feel guilty. I almost want the Horns to never speak to me again. Yet I owe them. I owe them, and this is how I repaid them?

Magnolia. Persua. Fals. Calruz. Yvlon. There’s a common thread between them all. Maybe some of it was for the best. I don’t know. But here I am. How did I get here? I have no answers. Just observations. And what I see is…

It’s me.

It’s always been me.



——



It was written all over her face. She probably had no idea what her face looked like. Close to tears, stubbornly refusing to cry. But also—

As she ran down towards that blight in the world, the Bloodfields—her eyes focused on the strange trees. On the prickle down her spine like a [Dangersense] every person possessed. Her instincts telling her to turn around or run past it, not through it.

She still kept coming. Because those eyes were hungry. If she wasn’t stopped, she would have gone straight into the center of that place.

She was less than a thousand paces from where the grass began to change when the young woman finally seemed to hear Ysara shouting at her.

“Miss! Miss!”

In her defense—as the City Runner slowed, Ysara, panting and riding full-tilt on the snorting stallion, saw the Human woman pulling something out of her ears. A dangling bit of string? What kind of thing was that? Something to help her hear?

It certainly hadn’t done that. Half the [Merchants] had joined Ysara in shouting, standing up in their stirrups or on the wagons to shout—even the Gnolls that Ysara had just passed were howling long notes of warning.

“Huh? What? What?”

The first reaction of the young woman was pure surprise. It crossed her dusky features, and Ysara realized she really hadn’t heard. Incredible. But the second reaction was instant and surprising hostility.

The Silver Merchant, panting, slowed her horse to a canter and hesitated a second. She looked at Ryoka, then pointed a hand.

“The Bloodfields. You nearly ran straight into it.”

“Huh?”

It was clear that the young woman was coming back to earth after being miles, miles away. She focused her eyes on the red grass—which Ysara happened to know was sharp—and the young woman was barefoot!

Already a sign she was odd—if her features didn’t already mark her as distinctly Drathian. Which could explain it, but Ysara had heard Drathians had their own language. This young woman had a perfect command of the common tongue. And her look was changing into severe annoyance.

“The Bloodfields? I know it’s the Bloodfields. It’s…”

She stared across the vast expanse, and her eyes didn’t even reach the end of it, Ysara knew. Her caravan had camped at the safest distance from the Bloodfields last night, then set out. By evening, they were close to the end of it, but this young woman might be forced to camp next to this place.

And it was not that safe.

“You were about to run straight into it. That’s madness. You won’t survive. Didn’t anyone warn you?”

Ysara was glad now she’d started riding so early. The young woman just blinked at her.

“It’s dangerous. A…‘death zone’?”

“Yes.”

Silence. Ysara knew she was being understood, but the young woman just stared at the crimson land ahead, eyed one of the dormant Watchertrees, and nodded.

“I’ve got business here. Or past here. Thanks for the warning. See ya.”

And she tried to keep running.

Ysara actually put her horse in the young woman’s way, and affronted, the Runner stopped. Ysara’s smile was far more strained this time.

“Excuse me, Miss. Perhaps you didn’t hear me. The Bloodfields are right there. If you go in—you’ll die. Even being this close to them is dangerous!”

She had no [Dangersense], but again, she didn’t need it. The Runner looked at Ysara. She spoke slowly, as if reluctant to waste any more words.

“I know.”

And she tried to edge around the horse. The animal actually put its head out to stop her, and Ysara held out a hand.

“Miss—what’s your name? Are you a City Runner?”

Reluctantly, for a third time, the young woman stopped and spoke.

“Ryoka Griffin. City Runner around the Celum region. On delivery. I’m not taking requests or mail.”

She recited it by rote, and Ysara smiled desperately, although by now she was getting peeved.

“Celum? I know the area quite well. Have you been to Wales? Remendia? Do you live there?”

“I run there. But I’m working. So…”

Ysara exhaled.

“Miss Ryoka Griffin. Please—[Hear Me Out].”

Ryoka Griffin’s feet stopped as she tried to take a step, and her head turned. Ysara saw the angry look and knew she had upset the young woman. But it was a Skill a [Merchant] got—a kind of final offer, even if it irked your client.

She didn’t like using it like this, but she had gotten the Skill to try and ram concepts into even the most thick-headed fools. Which had been family…

Anyways, the Silver Merchant spoke very calmly.

“The Bloodfields are a death zone. You know this, Miss Griffin? Gold-rank adventurers fear to tread there. Named-ranks would think twice and need a reason to go in. Armies may cross the Bloodfields, but they do it with fire and sword ahead of them. Only in the fall and winter is it remotely safe—and not if you go straight into it. I stopped you because I wanted to warn you that it was certain death. Suicide. Do you…understand me? Don’t go in there.”

She didn’t know how to say it plainer. Even her idiot brother would have gotten that. And the Runner, Ryoka Griffin, understood Ysara. In fact, her jade green eyes lit up a bit. In…excitement?

A wild kind of yearning. A strange exhilaration. Then Ysara recognized it. She had seen it in real adventurers, in Couriers she had met. When she had visited The Adventurer’s Haven, the most famous inn of all of Izril, the guests there had looked like that.

“I understand. You don’t want me to go in there?”

“Yes.”

The City Runner stared at Ysara. The [Merchant] held her gaze. Ryoka Griffin walked sideways and began to jog forwards.

Silver and steel! Ysara bit back an oath as she turned her horse to trot alongside Ryoka. Even her horse was trying to shy away from the Bloodfields.

“Miss—”

“I heard you. Thanks for the warning. Don’t go in, right?”

This time, the young woman gave Ysara a distinctly taunting, defiant look, and Ysara began to feel…nostalgic.

Oh no. This reminded her a bit of—herself. And in her experience…Ysara gritted her teeth, trying to sound friendly.

“Miss Ryoka. May I say something else?”

The Runner slowed.

“What now?”

“…Do go into the Bloodfields. It’s perfectly safe. And everyone would want you to do that.”

Ysara indicated the [Merchants], who were still watching them, and the Gnolls. A few of them were waving down at her, as if wondering if she needed help or if Ryoka was crazy. Ryoka’s eyes flicked. She stared at Ysara’s insincere smile.

“I think I might just do that.”

She turned, began to speed up—and Ysara kicked her in the shoulder as she rode past. Hard. Ryoka stumbled, whirled—and Ysara was already leaping down, shouting.

“Buleth! I need help!”

The Drake had already seen, and several [Guards] were riding her way, fast. Ryoka balled her fists, but Ysara had a hold of her shoulder.

“Let go of—”

“I am trying to stop you from getting killed. Listen to sense!”

The two women began wrestling, and unfortunately—the Runner knew some kind of wrestling tricks because she nearly tossed Ysara onto the ground. Only Ysara’s brief career as an adventurer saved her. She clung to Ryoka as the horse snorted and trotted around them.

“Why are you trying to get yourself killed?”

“None of your business! Get lost!”

“It is if you set off the Bloodfields—stop!”

Ryoka was dragging the two of them into the grass. Ysara saw the green turning crimson—and the first blades of the Bloodfields that Ryoka stepped on made the Runner freeze.

“Ow. What the—”

Ryoka stared at the red scratches on her feet—and then the grass. It had cut her feet up! It wasn’t…solid, but it was edged. So you’d bleed if you rolled around, but surface cuts. Like the worst paper cuts imaginable. That had to hurt. She looked at Ysara, and the Silver Merchant expected this to be enough. But Ryoka just tried to tear free.

“Let go of me. Now.”

Her hand curled, and Ysara braced herself.

“I want to help you.”

For some reason, that was apparently the worst thing to say, because the young woman’s eyes flashed. She raised her hand and threw a punch.

“Maybe I don’t want any help!”

In the moment before the punch landed, Ysara thought Ryoka’s face turned from wrath to guilt in a flash. The woman was braced—but the punch never hit her.

It was surely impossible. Impossible for the two struggling figures to have been caught unawares in the relatively flat ground. Impossible for anyone to close the distance that fast—no normal person could do it.

But the four-fingered gauntlet that caught Ryoka’s arm belonged to no ordinary woman. The giant eye that glowed with yellow and shifted colors as Ysara’s head turned and the four miniature eyes that spun and the sharp teeth that opened into a smile—

Those belonged to a legend.

Gazi Pathseeker, Gazi the Omniscient, Named-rank adventurer and…one of the King of Destruction’s Seven caught Ryoka’s arm in a grip that stopped it dead. She smiled—as Ryoka and Ysara whirled to look at her.

“Hello. Am I disturbing you?”



——



“You must be mad. Why would you want to run through the Bloodfields?”

That was what Buleth said to break the tense silence. Gnolls, [Merchants]—Drakes mostly—Ysara, Gazi, and Ryoka were all camped well west of the edge of the Bloodfields. Astonishingly close as they hadn’t cleared the final section, but Gazi made even the Bloodfields’ threat recede in everyone’s mind.

The Gnolls were Silverfangs. They’d introduced themselves as such and were heading to Liscor. They were quite friendly, and their leader had a beautiful longbow with hand-fletched arrows, all red as a cherry.

“Roc’s feathers. A single one cut up can make a quiver. They fly better—though you’d best take care in how you cut the feather up. Az’muzarre gifted our tribe a feather from their great bird.”

The Gnoll was speaking to one of the [Guards], and Ysara was fascinated by that, but all eyes were on Ryoka. And the Runner—shrugged.

“I have a delivery. My destination is around the Bloodfields. Going through seemed easy.”

She was giving Gazi a long, appraising stare as they sat around, talking. A wide-eyed not-quite glower that…was a mistake. Because the Named-rank adventurer just returned the look. And she had three more eyes.

Gazi Pathseeker stared at Ryoka Griffin with her main eye so long the young woman was forced to finally look away. Which was in and of itself commendable, because she had tried to stare down the most famous half-Gazer in the world.

She managed two whole minutes before she had to blink—then she kept her gaze on Gazi. Until the pressure made Ryoka wilt. That took another three minutes.

And not once did Gazi blink. She didn’t seem—angry. Not like the staring contests of adventurers or swords-for-hire that Ysara had seen now and then. That was really a children’s game between adults. Gazi didn’t need to play that game to prove anything.

That sword had claimed more lives than any weapon she had ever sold. The claymore on Gazi’s back had shed enough blood to grow a miniature Bloodfields. She…she would have made murderers and Roshal’s lot walk soft around her.

It said a lot that even if Ryoka didn’t know all about Gazi, she should surely have sensed it, and she had tried, despite it all, to out-stare Gazi. Yet, it was the Gazer who was most supportive of Ryoka when all was said and done.

“Easy. Ysara practically drags you away and you try to kill yourself? And us?”

Buleth grumbled. But now that everyone was calm, Ryoka looked—embarrassed. And uncomfortable. Gazi was still staring at her.

“Adventurer Pathseeker, thank you for the—help.”

Ysara tried to take that stare off Ryoka, and Gazi’s head turned—but her main eye rolled into the side of her head, and Ysara knew it was pointed at Ryoka. It seemed the Runner felt it, because she turned paler. She was sweating despite the chill in the air.

“Merchant Ysara. You are welcome. I thought it was an interesting event. Though now…if Runner Griffin wishes to enter the Bloodfields, I say let her.”

Everyone stared at Gazi. The Gnolls sniffed and glanced at each other and looked…concerned. Though everyone looked concerned by that statement.

“Let her kill herself, you mean?”

Ysara managed a polite chuckle. Gazi didn’t quite smile, though her lips turned up.

“If she is confident—let her make her choices. That is freedom. I have heard it said that a measure of Couriers and Gold-ranks is whether or not they can pass through the Bloodfields and live.”

Everyone fell silent at that. Ysara had heard that too, but Buleth chuckled weakly.

“Even Hawk the Hare wouldn’t try that, and he’s the closest Courier, Lady Pathseeker!”

“He’s also a bit of a coward.”

Someone else muttered. Gazi just shrugged, rolling the armor on her shoulders. Her main eye finally looked away from Ryoka, and the young woman untensed, shakily relieved.

“We cannot stop people from making their choices. And I think the outcome would be—interesting. We might all be surprised.”

Interesting. Most people were focused on Gazi’s face, but Ysara had met her share of legends thanks to The Adventurer’s Haven and her family. Magnolia Reinhart, for one. And she knew something of tricks thanks to the Golden Gnoll.

She noticed Gazi’s big eye swing down and stare at…something on Ryoka’s belt? Odd. Then Gazi turned, and all five eyes stared Ryoka down.

The Named-rank legend either held a grudge or believed in stamping out challenges. She eyed Ryoka as the cold sweat resumed.

“Though it is curious to meet you. What is your name, Runner, again? Where do you hail from? Such bravery isn’t often seen.”

“I’m…Ryoka. From around Celum.”

“And before that?”

Gazi smiled—until one of the Silverfang Gnolls sneezed. It sounded deliberate, but he raised a paw and brushed at the silver markings on his fur—the fangs as Buleth had claimed.

“Hah! And I thought your name would be ‘Erin’, yes? Well met, brave Runner. Foolish of you to try the Bloodfields, but if you’re going south, perhaps head to the Great Plains? You’ll enjoy it with your bare paws—er, feet. And our tribes are welcoming to Humans. Those that don’t come with fire and sword.”

He grinned, and Gazi’s eyes de-focused on Ryoka. A small eye rolled into the side of her head and fixed the Gnolls with a stare. It was unsettling…and covert. The half-Gazer turned her head to him and smiled, politely, as the Gnoll [Warrior] got to his feet. He passed by her, and one of her eyes kept following his face. The Gnoll shook Ryoka’s hand and Ysara’s.

“Silver Merchant, we heard you did good business with our Chieftain. I am Chief Warrior Rometh.”

“Please remember me to…Chieftain Akrisa and Shaman Cetrule. How is Cers doing? Satar?”

Ysara was grateful for [Contact Memory], which helped her remember her clients’ names. The Gnoll chuckled.

“Worrying over her little sister, Krshia Silverfang. Who lives in Liscor. We’re bound there.”

“That’s our stop as well. Would you like to go the rest of the way with us? It might be slow, but we’ll share a fire and food.”

Buleth chimed in, possibly wanting both the favor of the Gnolls in Liscor and more protection. The Gnolls murmured, but to the Drake’s disappointment, the [Warrior] demurred.

“We must go at best pace, but we will likely see you there, Merchant Buleth. Thank you for the kind offer. And for sharing this meal. But it is not wise to linger near the Bloodfields, yes? We will be heading out—but not if we are going to see this young Human lose her life in the next few minutes.”

He looked keenly at Ryoka, and she flushed.

“I’ll survive. I’ve run the High Passes already.”

That got everyone’s attention. Ysara suppressed a whistle despite herself. No wonder the young woman was confident!

It didn’t excuse her recklessness, though, or her attitude. But Gazi was trading pleasantries with a few [Guards], who begged her for a chance to see her blade or, even more, duel her. They had not a chance, Ysara knew. Most were below Level 20, and she could best them as a [Merchant]. She would never touch Gazi.

Then the young woman burst out with something that provoked a real silence.

“It’s no one’s business. Just let me do what I want. Even if I die—why do you care?”

Ryoka Griffin’s face was scarlet, and she flushed more when everyone looked her way. After a moment—Ysara stood up.

“Perhaps I should try to talk to this young woman. Miss Griffin? Would you step over here?”

She indicated the back of Buleth’s wagon, and Ryoka hesitated, saw Gazi glancing at her, and got up. The Gazer stared at Ryoka and Ysara with her main eye even when they walked behind the wagon, but one of her smaller eyes was slowly, slowly tracing a route across the foothills behind the temporary camp. As if following something.

The other eyes? They were watching the Gnolls. And the Gnolls were watching her.

“Liscor is a small city for a Named-rank adventurer to be in, Adventurer Gazi. Does something—interest you there? Such a legendary figure must be intimidating, to some, yes?”

Chief Warrior Rometh stretched out his legs around the fire, but some of the [Merchant]s’ guards realized that the Gnolls never sat or moved in a way that would leave them unguarded if they were attacked. Sensible around the Bloodfields—but they were staring at Gazi.

The half-Gazer’s smile had teeth—but the Gnoll’s fangs were just as sharp.

“A small city for Gnolls of your level as well. A warrior above Level 30 like you…and your entire group is high-level as well. So many Silverfangs for a border city of the Drakes is odd. Yes?”

She mimicked the Gnoll’s way of speaking, and Buleth’s head spun. Could she read levels? He’d heard some spells could do that—Rometh did not seem to appreciate Gazi’s insight. He snorted.

“Spoken like one foreign to Izril. Liscor’s mercenary army is not ‘small’. They were encircling Oteslia last I heard, and that is a deed few armies in the world can manage. Even your King of Destruction stopped at Zeres.”

That silenced the rest of the low-level conversations around the fire, not that there had been much. Gazi’s five eyes slowly fixed on Rometh, one by one.

“He never set foot on Izril himself. We sent one of seven against a Walled City, Gnoll. Had even more of us come—you would not smile.”

He was not smiling now.

“Your King never fought our tribes, and we would not have given up our lands to him like Chandrar. I am not looking for a battle, now, or to seek glory, Gazi Pathseeker. But I hear from my Chieftain’s sister that you take an interest in the same girl we seek. A dangerous one. I would not like to come to blows with you.”

Gazi slowly rotated her neck, shrugging her shoulders to unlimber them.

“And I would not like your warriors to go to Liscor. You seem intent on being my problem. So let us make a peaceful offer. Turn around and go back to your tribe. Now.”

Her central eye’s pupil dilated slowly as the Gnolls stirred. Several growled, but Rometh just sniffed without apparent fear.

“You howl loudly, Gazi Pathseeker.”

“Do you think eighteen of your lot can refuse?”

Her ‘smile’ had countless needle points of danger. In reply, Rometh shook his head. His voice was level and his gaze direct as he spread his paws.

“I am no fool to fight legends, Gazi Pathseeker. If you should push your will at Liscor, who could refuse you? No one with sense, and I have sense.”

She smiled—for about one second. Then Rometh went on calmly, glancing at the other Gnolls.

“If you insist and we insist, we must give way. So I shall give way and admit I am the lesser of us by far. But do you know what is coming next year? The Meeting of Tribes.”

The Gnolls chuckled at that, and Buleth thought of that grand gathering far in the future. Then—he saw Rometh’s gaze meet Gazi’s.

“If you insist, Gazi Pathseeker, I shall tell Honored Krshia I am too weak to stop you. And my Chieftain, embarrassing as it is. Then I shall go and tell Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh, Chieftain Xherw of Plain’s Eye, and the tribe of Az’muzarre how weak I am. Loudly. You stand a legend on foreign ground, Adventurer Pathseeker. We have our own.”

He smiled as Gazi’s own grin vanished and she sat there, eyes fixed on his face. Rometh turned to see where Yvlon and Ryoka had gone.

“You are alone and my people fill this continent. Walk quietly, Lady Pathseeker. Lest you wake something up.”

It was good advice, to her—and the young woman who was so insane. Perhaps Honored Krshia would be interested in this Ryoka Griffin too? Assuming, of course, that the [Merchant] could talk some sense into her.



——



“Who…are you? Just a [Merchant]?”

Ryoka’s first question caught Ysara off-guard. But then she didn’t look like a regular citizen of the North. A woman with a sword travelling the South? Ysara waved this off.

“That’s my class, yes. I have a bit of a reputation as a [Merchant]. The Silver Merchant, they call me, but I doubt you’ll hear my name that widely remembered in the North. I mostly work in the South.”

“Then—why are you so interested in me? Can’t you leave me alone?”

Ysara sucked in a breath. She didn’t make it easy, this Runner. But she just gave Ryoka another crooked smile.

“Can’t a traveller try to help another on the road? It’s the oldest give and take in the world. Now you’ve calmed down a bit—will you accept I just want to help, Miss Ryoka?”

The Runner said not a word. Her face was still red, and she was breathing hard. But it seemed to Ysara that was embarrassment now. As if…this were a familiar conversation to her. Ryoka just glowered though.

“I don’t want handouts. I don’t want to owe a favor.”

“Then you owe me nothing. Just hear me out. Friendly advice. I don’t want anything from you. Frankly, I don’t need a City Runner’s help. If I need to, I’d hire a Courier.”

That needled Ryoka. But Ysara put a hand out.

“I just don’t want to see someone die in front of me. And you…I won’t ask where you’re going. I know Runners take such things seriously. The good ones, at any rate. Yet surely someone told you the Bloodfields would be dangerous and to go around. It’s not bravado, surely, that makes you want to ignore all reasonable advice?”

Ryoka bit her lip. She had the intense urge to flip Ysara off and just run—but Gazi made her nervous. And the fact that Ysara was speaking so—pragmatically made it hard. It wasn’t like Magnolia. Ysara didn’t know Ryoka. So why did Ryoka want to tell her to get bent?

“I’ll live. I’ve survived worse.”

“Yes, but…let’s assume you do. You cut your feet up on the grass.”

Ysara gave Ryoka’s toes a pointed look. Ryoka had dabbed healing potion on them, and they were good as new. But even so. Ryoka bit her tongue as Ysara indicated the long Bloodfields.

“This area is miles upon miles long. You would shred your feet. Even if you can use potions, why suffer? Why risk the dangers in there? One awake Watchertree or a Colony Sac or…let’s assume you survive. Why try?”

“Why does someone climb a mountain? I like challenges.”

Ryoka shot back instantly. She pointed at the High Passes, so vast they stretched beyond the clouds looming over everything. Ysara peered at the mountains.

“I don’t know why someone would climb the High Passes. No one has ever survived who got anywhere close to the top. I do know adventurers, though, and I know risk. Believe me, as a [Merchant] I’ve been in danger travelling Izril. I am also a young enough woman to know why you’d want to dare it for excitement and bravado.”

Ryoka hesitated. She eyed Ysara, and the woman didn’t have lines, but…

“…How old are you?”

“Thirty-four.”

“You’re old.”

Ysara resisted the urge to slap Ryoka. She tried her best ‘I hate your guts, but I am going to sell you at a high markup’ smile.

“If nothing else, Miss Ryoka—what would your friends think, your family, if you were to go missing? I do not want to be the bearer of bad news to those who care about you.”

At that Ryoka Griffin—flinched. So visibly and so hard that even if Ysara had no eyes at all, she would have seen…

Oh. Oh, was it fate or chance that the two met? Because Ysara instantly saw something in Ryoka she didn’t want to necessarily see.

“No one’s waiting for me. Not my f—no family, and no friends. Okay? So leave me alone. I’ll go run in, level up—isn’t that how you’re supposed to do it?”

Ryoka turned, and Ysara spoke to her back.

“You know, my family loves honesty and integrity. Just like metal. It’s our motif. Silver and steel. Purity and strength. Valor and something else. For all that, most of my family can’t spot a liar even when it’s tattooed on their face. But you—even my brother would know you’re lying, Miss Ryoka. Everyone has someone who cares for them. Everyone has a friend.”

Hopefully. Or maybe you found them far from home. The young woman’s shoulders hunched. Then her head came around, and she spat venom fairly well, despite not being an Oldblood Drake or a serpent.

“You wouldn’t know anything about my problems! I’m tired of people coming into my life and offering advice or trying—trying to ‘help’. I’m not like the rest of you, do you understand? I just want to be left alone. You won’t enjoy my company, and I won’t repay generosity. Got it?”

The conversation in the rest of the merchant’s camp stopped, and Ysara suspected everyone had heard that, not just the Gnolls and Gazi. Ryoka looked mortified—but Ysara began to get the issue.

She, too, knew someone running away from home when she saw it. Mirrors did exist—but the Silver Merchant just exhaled. She was rarely this personal so quickly—but she knew her clients. And though Ryoka wasn’t in any regular sense of the word—Ysara looked north, over her shoulder, and spoke truth like silver. Painful words glittering in the air.

“In my experience, Miss Griffin, no matter how much we want to run forever—someday we do have to go back. And it is better not to leave regrets behind. They grow. Better to face them now. It is harder than monsters. But a more important battle. If only we could always know we’d win.”

She stared towards the horizon, past the High Passes as she said that. with a faraway grimace on her face. Ryoka stared at Ysara and shook her head.

“I’m a piece of shit. You—you really wouldn’t get it. I can’t fit in and be friendly. I don’t enjoy it. I can’t be a good person back to Ga—to the H—to people. So it’s better if they don’t try. I don’t belong. So…can’t you just leave me be? Just let me run and not bother me?”

It was a strange question. In Ysara’s experience, in her travels of the south, a lot of Drakes and Gnolls were only too happy to do business with her and never ask her name or ask how a Human came to be there and treat her like a prop. But someone…she wondered what her sister might say of Ryoka after all, as it was clear they had met.

Someone, or many people, had met Ryoka. And to the young woman’s complaints, Ysara didn’t have an answer to what sounded like a mess. She didn’t really like messes—or people of Ryoka’s personality—or the hold up and chaos this one young woman was causing to her journey, if admittedly only for half an hour or so.

But what Ysara did have to take objection with was the last bit. She turned to face Ryoka.

“Miss Griffin. Look at me for one second.”

Ryoka eyed Ysara, and the Silver Merchant brushed at her long, indigo hair. She showed Ryoka her bare shoulder where the glittering silver ship rose out of the golden vines and the earring on one ear.

“Miss Griffin. Would you believe I belong to a noble family in the north? A small one, but I’m technically a [Lady] by birth. And if you know anything of the north, I think you understand what my House is like. Miss Ryoka. I know something about not fitting in.”

More than Ryoka could know. But the City Runner looked at Ysara, looked at her and slowly nodded.

“So? Are you going to say that I should go back and try? That I—I should keep making the attempt? That I owe it to my friends not to let them down?”

Ysara paused a beat.

“I rather think that is your case, Miss Griffin. I was going to say that if they cannot accept you with all your oddities—if not your objectionable behavior—if they cannot accept the core of you, they do not deserve your company. But then—I also respect someone who would change the mountain to fit their passage.”

She smiled wide and wondered if Ryoka understood any of it. The City Runner looked at Ysara for a long time, and the Silver Merchant encouraged her.

“But if there are good sorts behind you—why not come back with us? My sister can be—well, I haven’t seen her for at least five years. But we could always use a companion on the road. It could be pleasant.”

Perhaps Ryoka didn’t know why she was being offered so much by the [Merchants], the Gnolls, and arguably, Gazi.

Perhaps she didn’t know how she looked. Runners always looked windblown, sometimes dusty, sometimes dirty, sometimes bloody or harried.

Few looked sad like this. Or as lost. Or as…desperate.

Ryoka Griffin stood there and wavered. And Ysara thought she saw part of Ryoka step forwards, take her hand, and turn back north. For a second, it looked like she was turning—then something, something in her, dragged her back. The City Runner stepped back and shook her head.

“I have to go. I…”

She trailed off, and her eyes flickered.

“I have to go.”

She stopped, and Ysara exhaled sadly. But then Ryoka added.

“Thanks. I’ll think about what you said. And I’ll stay away from the Bloodfields.”

Ysara nodded.

“That’s all I can ask for. At least have a cup of tea or one of Buleth’s snacks, though. And—”

She was going to say, ‘and if you want me to take a message, I can’, but Ysara never got the chance. Because behind her, she heard a sudden howl.

“Treacher—”

The Gnolls? Ryoka and Ysara turned—and then an arrow shot through the canvas walls of one of the caravan wagons. Ysara dodged it, saw the red Roc’s feather—and then she heard the shouting.

“Stop fighting! Stop f—Lady Pathseeker, pl—”

Gazi Pathseeker stood in the middle of a firefight. What had begun it in the time they had taken to talk, Ysara didn’t know.

What she did see were the Silverfangs, all eighteen, racing for the horses. There were only ten that mounted, but the remaining eight charged after the riders—and all eighteen were showering arrows behind them.

Not at the terrified [Merchants]—but at Gazi. And she?

She was deflecting arrows with her claymore or letting them snap on her armor. Ysara, sword drawn, saw Gazi whirl her gigantic blade around with two hands and chop an arrow in half.

Chop in half an arrow shot at fifty paces by a longbow. Ysara had seen fast blades from Silver-bell duelists. This?

This was a legend. And she advanced, calmly, into the arrows as the Gnolls retreated. Why were they fighting?

“Buleth! Why are they fighting?”

Ysara grabbed the Drake; he had taken cover behind the wagon, and Ysara crouched down as Ryoka hunkered down; even she wasn’t unafraid of the arrows.

“I don’t know! They were both threatening the other, but then they fell silent, and I thought—then she got up and cut one of their heads off! Keep your heads down! Protect the goods!”

Buleth’s screams didn’t inspire anyone to shield the goods with their bodies, but everyone obeyed the first order.

Ryoka? Ryoka was frozen because she had seen the first body. A Gnoll lay on the ground—her head severed from the torso. Dead. Rometh was howling rage at Gazi as she deflected arrows, grinning as her bloody sword whirled through the air.

And Gazi was beginning to charge, still deflecting arrows away from her face—the Gnolls were fleeing fast, north, towards Liscor.

“W-what the fuck is going on?”

Ryoka called out. She dared to raise her head with Ysara while Buleth still hid—mostly because the Gnolls had good aim and they were just loosing at Gazi. The Named-rank adventurer was laughing as she ran, and Ysara saw the younger [Traders], [Merchants], Runners, shamefaced [Guards], all slowly emerging from cover. The fight was moving uphill at speed, and now there wasn’t even a remote chance of catching an arrow; the two groups had to be half a mile away already.

She glanced at the Bloodfields—and they were mercifully quiet. The nearby hills were silent, and the fighting was moving north towards the high ridgeline. The Gnolls had speed over Gazi, and they might make it.

But what was the battle about? Ryoka looked at Ysara, and the Silver Merchant turned to Buleth.

“Time to get going. We might need to skip Liscor.”

The pale [Merchant] could only nod.



——



“Are you sure you won’t come with us?”

It’s the oddest thing. I’ve barely known her for a hot minute—and yet I want to take Ysara up on her offer.

Maybe it’s because she’s not like Magnolia. Maybe it’s because I’m so guilty. Maybe it’s because she’s really not like Magnolia or anyone else I’ve met in the north, and she’s the gayest woman I’ve seen in this world so far*.



*Is that bad to think? The hair color, the tattoo, one earring? Maybe it’s different over here. I swear she was staring at me like Calruz does, though…



I like her. I like Calruz. I liked them. I was afraid of it.

She struck home. She struck a nerve. I…I think there’s something in me.

A little war. Part of me wants to go and keep running. To jump into the Bloodfields and never look back. The rest?

Go back and say sorry to Ceria. To the Horns. To the people you respect and bowed to and swore you would repay.

I want to. Oh, I do. But something is dragging me over.

The geas. Myself.

I—I—

There’s something wrong with me.

More than magic.

I want to take her up, but I look Ysara in the eyes.

“I’ve got something to do. I’m sorry.”

She smiles and extends a hand ruefully. She’s got calluses as I take it. She’s actually a swordswoman.

“As am I. But if you catch us—at least let’s have a drink, agreed?”

“I’d like that.”

I think I whisper those words. I actually would. But then I’m shaking Buleth’s claws, trying not to stare at the Drake as he stares at my…hips? And the Gnolls and I want to go.

Find the Necromancer. Find the Necromancer. FindtheNecromancer. Findthenecromancerfindthenecromancerfindthenecromancer—

I want to go back.

I want—

I wish I could stay because I feel like something’s connecting in my head. But I can’t. So I go—and I keep looking back. Back, at Ysara, who’s watching me as the caravan begins to go around the final part of the Bloodfields. I’m jogging by that red terrain, staring at those alien forests.

How can I even describe what I’m seeing? Some of it is just—unnatural. Just like giant fungi—unsettling spores with huge veins that look alien, poisonous. But another plant looks like a giant…pillow? It must be four feet tall and just as wide across, and there are larger varieties deeper within!

Pale white…stalks. Long fronds of plants—all covered by a bit of frost. All dead. Or hibernating? Teriarch told me I could do this moderately safely. But I remember Ysara’s words and don’t go towards the Bloodfields. I’m just jogging with rocky slopes leading up to the cliffs beyond. Boring sandstone up there or some local rock.

Past the Bloodfields. Along the mountain range…a forest. How far is that, I wonder? How many weeks or months to find this guy?

Findhimfindhimhavetofindhim—

Ceria and Gerial and Calruz are going into a dungeon. Ysara’s…nice. I want to go back. Why can’t I…? I want to run into the Bloodfields. I’m crazy. I’ve always been crazy, haven’t I?

“The Lich. The High Passes. I didn’t care if I died.”

The words sound—wrong. Because they’re true. I want to go back, but two things carry me on. Myself. My damned self.

And the magic.

I think I’m fighting. I want to go back. I twist around, and if Ysara’s looking at me, I’ll—

I turn and spin and spin—and a lance of agony strikes my shoulder, and when I stop, I stare blankly at something wrong. Wronger than my head. A black…steel bolt, not like the Gnoll’s arrows. Compact and short and iron. It’s in my shoulder, and my skin’s deformed around it. And I hear someone screaming my name, and I stare at it.

A crossbow bolt?



——



Ysara saw the ambush as Ryoka Griffin slowed and turned. If the Runner had been looking straight, it would have gone straight through her side. As it was—it went through one of her shoulder blades. At first, she had no idea what was going on.

Then—she saw three figures wearing black cloth over their heads and faces and remembered something.

The three Humans. Hadn’t she seen…more Humans taking cover when the Gnolls were fighting Gazi? Hiding behind some rocks. She hadn’t—

They were on the ridge. One had a crossbow, and he’d fired it straight down at Ryoka. It would have gone straight through Ryoka’s chest—instead, it hit her shoulder, spun her around, and nearly dropped her onto her back with the force of it.

“Shit—”

“Shoot again! Shoot again!”

Two voices echoed as, again, the [Merchants] took cover, crying out in alarm. A high-pitched, female voice, belonging to a thin young woman with pigtails screaming at a panicking young man holding a crossbow.

Ryoka Griffin stumbled, stared at the blood welling from the bolt in her shoulder, and opened her mouth to scream in pain. Then her eyes bulged. She looked up—and Ryoka spoke a name.

“Persua.”

Persua, Claudeil, and Toriska emerged from behind cover. Faces covered—and the girl screamed.

“Kill her! Toriska, kill her!”

“Don’t hit me, Claudeil!”

The second Runner came sprinting down the hill, holding her daggers. Ryoka was still staring at her shoulder in shock.

“[Bandits]! Run for it!”

Buleth was screaming, but Ysara seized the same horse she’d kept handy—just in case she saw Ryoka going for the Bloodfields.

“No! Get to Ryoka! Someone’s trying to kill her!”

She leapt into the saddle, sword drawn—but the Runners were at least a thousand paces away, and Ryoka was stupefied. The one with the crossbow was trying to reload it, and the other was screaming at her companion.

“Kill her! Kill her before she shouts our names to—”

Then Persua looked up and saw Ysara riding down on them. The [Merchant] had a sword drawn like some [Cavalry Rider], and Toriska froze as she saw a real swordswoman coming at her.

But Ryoka was right there, and she was barehanded. Toriska charged with a scream.

“You—”

Ryoka finally broke out of her stupor. She saw Toriska coming—pivoted—and kicked. Barefoot or not—Toriska was wearing light leather armor suited for running. The ball of Ryoka’s foot still slammed into her chest, and she went stumbling backwards, her warcry in her lungs. She staggered—then slashed.

Ryoka Griffin felt a line of pain cut down her leg and gasped. She hadn’t ever fought someone with a knife. She knew how to kick them, but the cut—

The cut laid open her calf, slashed through a muscle, and Ryoka screamed in pain as she staggered. Toriska’s daggers were sharp!

“Drop your weapons or die!”

Ysara was shouting. Toriska caught herself—and she might be bruised, but she saw Ryoka staring at the huge gash in her leg. And she had a crossbow bolt in her useless arm.

“Shoot the horse! The horse!”

Claudeil’s crossbow twanged again, and Ysara shouted and a horse screamed as it went down, a crossbow bolt jutting out above its left foreleg. The woman went down, tumbling from the saddle as [Guards] rode after her, shouting and trying to aim bows. The Runners were terrified.

“Persua, we have to go—”

Claudeil shouted, wanting to run into the foothills and hide, but Persua slashed at him. She had a knife too, and he flinched.

“Don’t say my name! If she lives, she’ll tell them. They’ll hang us—we’ll be wanted, you fool! Shoot her! Toriska, get her and we can go!”

The Runners looked at Persua and then at Ryoka. Ryoka saw Toriska advance, slashing with her daggers. And she…

She had levels. Ryoka did not.

“[Slashy Storm]!”

Toriska’s blades blurred, forming a wall of uncoordinated but fast slashes. Ryoka backed up, but her leg was cut and—Toriska was still a Runner.

She got Ryoka, and the City Runner stared at her arm and a cut that went down to her bone. She screamed—and then she was turning, running, her good hand fumbling for a healing potion. She ran the only way she could: towards the Bloodfields. Toriska hesitated—then sprinted after her, and the two women were running.

And Persua?



——



“Persua, this is crazy!”

Claudeil had thought his best friend, Persua, was crazy when she told him that Ryoka had to die. But she had convinced him—Ryoka had cost them their City Runner careers. All they had to do was follow her, nail her with his crossbow, and no one would know. They’d even get the gold Magnolia had given her.

Until he’d been there, with her in his sights, he hadn’t realized how…how it would be him pulling the trigger. A [Guardsman] might ask him on a truth stone if he’d killed someone, and he’d have to say ‘yes’ or be found out.

He’d hesitated. Persua had grabbed the crossbow. She hadn’t hesitated. But then it had gone wrong.

The [Merchant] with the blade had taken cover behind her screaming horse. She’d tried to advance, but he had fired two crossbow bolts, and she didn’t look like she wanted to dodge them. But—

An arrow rattled off the boulders high, high overhead, and Persua screamed and he flinched. The [Guards] were shooting arrows. Very inaccurately, but Claudeil was terrified.

“They have [Guards]! I told you we should have waited!”

He screamed at Persua, but they had barely caught up with Ryoka drinking stamina potions after four days. Persua was white and red at the same time, somehow. She screamed back.

“We’ll lose them! Just shoot Ryoka already!”

Claudeil poked his head up as he put another bolt into his crossbow and feverishly drew back the drawstring. He stared down at Ryoka, flinching as another arrow landed well clear of them. One [Pinpoint Shot] and he was dead…

He saw, to his disbelief, two figures running into the Bloodfields. Ryoka and…

“Toriska’s doing her [Fast Sprint]! She’s barely able to keep up!”

Ryoka was fast! She was running for her life after all, and everyone knew she was the fastest Runner—but even without seeming to use a Skill, she was ahead of Toriska. But the other Runner had knifed her at least once—Ryoka was bleeding from the lower back.

Yet the blood was healing, and even as he watched, Claudeil swore he saw the crossbow bolt he’d hit her with falling out. Healing potions!

“We have to kill her. She’s going into the Bloodfields. Toriska can’t catch Ryoka. See? She’s already falling behind now that her Skill’s done. But three of us can get her.”

Persua swung herself up onto the boulder. To Claudeil’s astonishment, Persua, Persua who hated going through monster-infested areas, who never started fights but always seemed to get him and Toriska involved—pointed into a death-zone.

“Are you mad?”

He looked at her, aghast, but she just stared at him. Her eyes were wide, and she was breathing hard through her nose, her nostrils dilating. Her face was white, but her eyes—she looked at Ryoka.

“She’s going to get away unless we go. And if she says we tried to kill her, Magnolia Reinhart will murder us in our beds. Come on.”

She dragged Claudiel up. More arrows landed around them, but the [Guards] must not have had [Archer] classes. He whimpered.

“That [Merchant]’ll kill us!”

“Not in the Bloodfields. See? No one’s going after Toriska. They’re afraid. But the Bloodfields aren’t moving. Come on.”

Persua grabbed Claudeil with more force than he thought she had in her thin frame. He debated refusing another time, but Persua lifted the dagger and looked him in the eyes. He saw the perfect calm in hers.

“If you run, I’ll make sure you die if it’s the last thing I do. Ryoka’s taken everything from me. This is all her fault. Fals, my City Runner rank…we’re going in there.”

Claudeil hesitated one more second—but then he leapt out from the boulders, skated down the rocks, and ran. Ysara came after them, but the Runners were City Runners—they charged into the Bloodfields, and the [Merchant] hesitated and backed away from one of the dormant Watchertrees. She stared at Ryoka, then whirled and shouted for a horse, for bows—

And Claudeil was running after Ryoka, aiming at her with a crossbow as she disappeared through a silent thicket of the strange trees. This time, he didn’t hesitate. First Ryoka died. Then…he never wanted to see Persua again. He’d go somewhere else. He had gone after Ryoka because more than the law, more than murder or the Bloodfields—

Persua scared him the most.



——



This was it. Ryoka knew it as she ran through the Bloodfields.

She was bleeding. Her wounds healed as she drank a potion, and the taste was foul—like acrid bitterness—the same taste you got if you ever accidentally found a bug in your mouth. Yet it was life, and every other sensation was far worse.

Glass under feet. A thousand tiny blades slicing her feet’s soles to shreds. The Bloodfields’ grass was—sharp.

She would have left a trail of bloody footprints behind her if it weren’t for the red already around her. Red—and the silent plants and gigantic pods that seemed to rustle as she passed. But the Bloodfields were silent.

Yet she felt she was in as much danger as in the High Passes—if not more. Like a trap waiting to be sprung. Even without Ysara’s warnings—

Ryoka felt like she was running into the depths of hell itself. Into a foreign land filled with nightmares and the wrong kind of aliens.

Even the creatures looked—wrong. She saw one of them staring at her. Then bounding away as a crossbow bolt missed her and thudded into the ground.

Was that a rabbit? It had…a face like a leech. ‘Teeth’, a flat face—combined with the regular rabbit’s fur.

Everything here wanted her blood. And she was bleeding.

“Ryoka! Come back and die!”

A scream, high and wild. Persua was coming. Ryoka would have gone back to fight her—but it wasn’t just her.

Claudeil’s crossbow twanged again, and it missed her again. He wasn’t the best shot, but he’d hit her twice. Once, in the shoulder. The second time—in the lower back, just above her hips. She couldn’t stop to pull the bolt out. Every time she moved, she felt it twisting and cutting her open from the inside.

But if she stopped, Toriska or Persua would get her. The Runner with her daggers had gained confidence after seeing Ryoka bleed.

She was trying to cut Ryoka down. Cripple her by cutting her hamstrings. Knife her enough times in the back or get to her throat where no healing potions would save Ryoka.

Monsters. They scared Ryoka more than the Eater Goats. More than the Goblins. They were people. They were supposed to be Runners—

They’d crushed her leg once. This time—they’d kill her.

Persua hung back as the two Runners spread out. Ryoka was slower than she needed to be. The pain from her laceterated feet and her injuries, even with the potion, made her slow—and they had Skills.

“[Fleetwind Run]!”

Claudeil ran in a sudden burst of speed, circling Ryoka as she ran towards another ‘forest’. She dodged behind one of the pillow-pods, eight feet tall and massive, and Toriska circled around the other way. Ryoka saw the young man raise his crossbow and covered her face with her arms.

Thunk.

The crossbow missed her by a foot. Claudeil cursed; his Skill had given him a tremendous backwind to help him run faster. It had also thrown off the aim of the bolt.

It thudded into the red, meaty pillow-thing next to Ryoka, and the entire plant shivered. Ryoka twisted around—and Toriska was coming the other way. Ryoka fumbled at her belt.

“Got h—”

The belt knife Ryoka carried nearly stabbed Toriska in the face. She recoiled with a shriek.

“[Evasive Roll]!”

She rolled away with amazing speed, dodging the first stab, and Ryoka charged her. Toriska screamed for help as Ryoka slashed as inexpertly as Toriska. But she saw an opening. Toriska was trying to block Ryoka with her daggers, forgetting that was nearly impossible.

There. Knife her straight through one of her orange eyes. Put the tip of the blade through the pupil and push—

The urge was in Ryoka. Every time she saw Toriska, Claudeil, Persua, people she didn’t like—

She had always wanted to do something to them like this. Something unforgivable. All the things the dark voice whispered and shouted at her to do.

Didn’t she deserve…?

Ryoka hesitated, and Toriska rolled away again. She scrambled back, and Ryoka missed her chance. She couldn’t do it.

Stab her through the face? She didn’t…

She didn’t want that after all.

The irony of realizing this, now? Ryoka nearly screamed, but she didn’t…she looked over her shoulder and ducked as something cut the air and hit the pillow-plant again, making it ripple and shredding the plantain fabric.

She didn’t want to become that.

Persua had a wand. She aimed it, and another dart of…stone blasted through the air. It had less punch than Claudeil’s crossbow, but it grazed Ryoka like a punch across one cheek and tore the skin. Ryoka dodged as Persua screamed.

“Toriska, flank her! Claudeil—”

He was dropping bolts. Persua made up for her lackeys’ failings by unloading spell after spell with the wand. She only stopped when she saw Ryoka had taken cover—and that her wand was dead. She tossed it aside and reached for another.

Madness. If there were anyone that Ryoka would kill in this or any other world, it would be Persua. The other Runner had a terrible look in her eyes.

Not madness, whatever that looked like. That was probably on Ryoka’s face, a snarl of desperation, too-wide eyes, and a hysterical urge to laugh. Persua…

Persua just looked angry. Frustrated. And a quiet little demon in her looked delighted. This is it. We’re settling this.

No one to interfere. Claudeil turned and ran, shouting in fear, as a few arrows landed around him, but the distant archers, including Ysara, weren’t in the Bloodfields. They were screaming at Ryoka to run. To get to them—but Persua, Claudeil, and Toriska were blocking her flight to safety. The only other way was deeper into the Bloodfields.

Ryoka Griffin lifted the dagger in her hand as she stared at Persua—then she cried out, swiped left—Toriska jumped away. Then a brand of frozen pain hit her in the temple, and Ryoka’s head snapped back.

Ice shard. Persua’s second wand fired miniature versions of Ceria’s spell, [Ice Spike]. And her aim was better than—

A crossbow bolt hit the pillow plant. Ryoka stumbled upright, resting her weight against the shivering plant. And then—as she wondered what to do—she looked at the red, heaving mass.

And she realized what the Bloodfields were.

Ryoka stared into the gaps left by the two crossbow bolts and Persua’s attacks. They had cut the thick lining of the plant opening, exposing the innards. The walls weren’t actually that thick. Ryoka would have guessed the ‘skin’ of the plant was a foot deep, but the reality was half that at most. Because the plant was actually a—

Nursery?

Ryoka Griffin stared into a dark chamber that—rustled—along with the shivering of the pillow-plant. It was hollow, mostly, with internal chambers filled with…

Insects. They lined the walls. The eggs filled the interior of the nursery. They were hibernating, hiding from the cold in this plant. The fighting, Ryoka’s proximity, and the cold was waking them up. She could see them rustling around in agitation—but the cold was keeping them—

Silent. Asleep. Ryoka’s head twisted. And she saw one of the spore-plants slowly rising. As if it were raising its head. Waking up.

One of the shivering pale trees was twitching. The Bloodfields—

“—Ryoka!”

Ysara’s voice in the distance. Ryoka looked up and saw the [Merchant] striding into the Bloodfields, warily, sword drawn as the [Guards] aimed bows, forcing Claudeil and Persua to retreat. She was beckoning.

Ryoka began to run her way. Then—so suddenly it shocked even Toriska, circling her—and something forced her to turn around, start running deeper into the Bloodfields.

FIND. THE. NECROMANCER.

“Stop it!”

She was screaming. Ryoka ran deeper, crying now, and her foes followed. Then she began laughing. She was cursed. This time there was magic—but she had been doing this from the start. The High Passes hadn’t killed her. Running deliveries against monsters hadn’t.

This…

She wanted this. Ryoka dropped her dagger rather than put it in her belt-sheath. She didn’t want to kill—she didn’t have the guts to do it. Persua, though? Toriska? Claudeil?

“Let’s all die. Good riddance. You want me, Persua? Come and get me!”

Ryoka screamed, and Persua’s head snapped up. She fired three more shards of ice—then motioned. Claudeil and Toriska hesitated, but they were in too far.

Deeper. Ryoka ran towards the largest grove she could find and drew something else from her belt pouch. A thought crossed her mind. Truth without prevarication.

I feel so alive. Did I want this? This? To matter? To risk my life and not let anyone down?

I feel so lonely. I wish someone were here. Garia. Anyone.

She looked back, and it hit her as she saw Ysara, now running, far slower than the Runners. Persua’s twisted smile as she saw Ryoka’s weary, desperate faltering run.

I wanted a friend. But I was afraid.

I don’t know how to be a friend. I wish—

Then the fourth crossbow bolt hit her in the leg, and she went crashing into the sharp blades of grass. When Ryoka sat up, she saw Claudeil reloading his crossbow. Persua aimed the wand at Ryoka’s face. But she said nothing. She just fired the wand—twice.

The first went wide. The second hit Ryoka and might have cracked her skull. Ryoka’s head snapped back—and she fell back on the ground. Only to sit up again—but the skin across her forehead was torn. Blood ran down her face as Toriska stopped.

Ryoka had managed to tear the second crossbow bolt free of her back, but blood was slowly oozing down her back legs. It trickled down her face and made a mask that added to the desperate, despairing look as she stared back at her pursuers. Even Toriska hesitated and looked sideways.

“Persua…”

“Got you.”

Persua never looked at Toriska. If her friend had been lying with her throat cut—Persua would have had eyes only for Ryoka. She was smiling, just like she did in the Runner’s Guild.

The wand wouldn’t kill Ryoka. The runner was getting up even as Persua snapped more frozen shards into her skin, leaving icy shards embedded in flesh. She hit Ryoka in the stomach, arm, her bad leg—and then handed the wand to Toriska.

“Give me that crossbow, Claudeil. She can’t run any more.”

“She’s got a wand, Persua—”

Claudeil flinched as he saw Ryoka had a strange wand in her hand. Persua had a cheap one, made of spruce or something, with cheap gem and magicore fillings.

Ryoka’s…Persua looked up in sudden paranoia, and she snatched the crossbow as the three of them looked around—then found one of the pillow-plants. Toriska dove behind it—Claudeil found one of the pale mushrooms, foul-brown in color and with a huge cap to shield most of him. Persua poked her head out from behind the pillow, and Ryoka was standing, now.

The leg with the crossbow bolt stuck in it bore none of her weight. She was trying to pull it out, but her hand was slippery with blood. And the other was holding that wand.

It was…red. Red crystal? It looked hot. Steam was rising in the chilly air as Persua eyed it. Even her wand was more expensive than anything the other Runners carried.

“Dibs on that wand. Something wrong with your leg, Ryoka?”

Persua called out, and Ryoka’s head snapped up. Neither girl fired though—Persua was trying to get Ryoka’s head as it bent and then twisted to track her. And she was afraid of Ryoka’s counterattack.

“If it’s a wand of [Fireball]…”

Claudeil was panting with terror as he came to the most logical conclusion. Persua looked around.

“Toriska, run left. Distract her.”

“Me? No!”

Toriska instantly refused. Persua swung the crossbow around, and for a second, she and Toriska locked gazes as the other Runner went white—but then Ryoka shouted back.

“You want me, Persua? Let’s end this once and for all!”

Her voice was ragged and wild. But she was laughing. Laughing and coughing with each word, as if her lungs had blood in them. Ryoka lifted the wand, and all the Runners ducked. Ryoka stared at them and then around this terrible, red land.

“Then let’s die here. Come on, Persua!”

The wand’s tip ignited into fire so bright and hot it was white. Persua ducked back with a scream, and the crossbow bolt fired wide as Ryoka aimed the wand. A searing jet of flames blasted overhead.

“She missed! Run! She’s got a Gold-rank wand!”

Claudeil shouted, but then he realized Ryoka was shooting again. Flames shot from the tip of her wand. Not a cheap, Tier 1 or Tier 2 spell like Persua’s—but a jet of flames white-hot, so fiery that even dozens of feet overhead it baked him.

And she could keep firing the spell. The flamethrower froze the Runners, and Claudeil waited to see Persua go up in flames as the girl cowered and shrieked.

But—Ryoka didn’t roast them. She could have—but she swung the wand around. Left, right, overhead—behind her? But then Claudeil wasn’t paying attention.

“[Scatter Dash]! [Emergency Smokescreen]!”

“[Deflect Attention: Claudeil]!”

The other Runners were screaming, using Skills to evade the flames. But Ryoka had the worst aim in the world—she was aiming far too high. As the three City Runners fled their cover, they saw more jets of flame landing. The fire…didn’t burn out immediately. It rained down from overhead, and Ryoka was shooting it everywhere. Trying to cut off their escape?

Five minutes. Five minutes of Ryoka blasting flame across the Bloodfields. She whirled a firestorm into the air—and it missed the Runners completely. Not that they were anywhere close to her. But she lobbed huge arcs of white flame into the sky and watched them spread out and bake the land.

Even her wand had a limit, though. The crystal went dead, and Ryoka let it drop. Then she grabbed the bolt in her leg and began to draw it out.

She flinched as Persua nearly nailed her other leg with a crossbow bolt. The Runner was laughing.

“You idiot! You missed!”

She had been dodging just a second ago. But now…Ryoka Griffin looked up. She had a healing potion in her hands, but no more weapons. She looked up at Persua as the girl slowly reloaded her crossbow. Claudeil and Toriska stood behind Persua, panting. They wanted nothing more but for this to be over. The air smelled of smoke, now, and was hot from the flames.

Hot.

Ryoka was smiling. She looked relieved. Like someone who had been dangling on the edge of a cliff and at last…let go.

“Goodbye, Persua. I don’t think either of us are getting out of this.”

Persua just sneered as she brushed at the cloth covering her features.

“Those [Merchants] can’t do anything. Even if they claim we were here—they have no proof. Not even Lady Reinhart can get us. I have powerful friends.”

“Really? Then good luck.”

Ryoka’s smile was bloody. Persua’s brows crossed—then she heard a moan. It came from Claudeil, and he touched her shoulder.

“Persua.”

She swung around, looking for the [Merchants]. Her first thought was that the one with the silver blade had caught up. But no—the woman with indigo hair was standing at the edges of the Bloodfields. If anything, she’d begun retreating towards the rest of her group. And the [Merchants] were…fleeing back?

Then Persua felt the heat on the breeze. She looked around, and the flames that Ryoka had shot everywhere were still burning. But mostly—it was just warm. Hot.

Ryoka’s aim had not been at the other Runners. It had instead been at—the interspersed growth on the Bloodfields. The plants and silent, slumbering Bloodfields. Sleeping in the cold.

Only now…Persua saw the plants moving. Rising. Growing…and her eyes went wide in sudden realization and horror. Toriska moaned.

“The Bloodfields. She woke them up.”

The plants were flexing, stretching, thinking that the winter had ended. It was not a slow awakening—Persua saw the first white spire slowly rising from the ground.

It had been maybe fifteen feet before. Now…the Watchertree rose and rose, a pale trunk spearing upwards. High, higher…it was thirty feet tall now, fifty. Seventy…

Eighty feet tall, the Watchertree was still rising—and more spires emerged out of the ground. Pale, white teeth out of dripping red lands. The Bloodfields began to buzz.



——



Ysara saw the Bloodfields moving. And everyone in the [Merchant]’s caravan was screaming. They had been the moment Ryoka fired the flames from her wand.

“[Dangersense]! Ysara—run!”

Buleth was screaming at her, his voice hoarse. The caravan was pivoting. They were headed—south. South and west, away from the Bloodfields. Why? Ysara didn’t understand until she saw where Ryoka and the other Runners were fighting. The area just ahead of them was waking up.

She was running now, but she slowed to see what was happening. She had time—the cumbersome wagons weren’t fast. Ryoka Griffin was standing there as the other three Humans wavered. And it was well they didn’t immediately move. Now they were in mortal danger.

Watchertrees. They were active, and now—unless you had an army—

She had never seen the Bloodfields awake, but Ysara knew the stories. She saw the first Sporemines venting their toxic gasses into the air, leaving shimmering clouds of death. They wanted you to run. And you had to run.

The first swarms of insects were emerging from their homes. They buzzed into the air, in a swarm—and they came for the [Merchants], the largest group, first.

“Abandon the wagons!”

“What? Our goods—”

“Abandon the wagons and get them later! Or we’ll all be dead! Get on a horse and ride!”

Ysara screamed at Buleth. They’d never make it up that steep incline towards Liscor—their only hope was to go south and hope the entire Bloodfields didn’t come to life.

“Run!”

The Drake realized she was right. One of the [Traders] slashed the leads off a horse, but the terrified animal was already bolting. The rest tried to get on a horse or just ran—but the insects were on top of them in moments.

And they were—huge.

One was the size of Ysara’s head and mothy—but it had teeth. It tried to land on Buleth’s face and tear off his scales. She stabbed it through the abdomen as he screamed. She might have stabbed him—but she saved his face. He tore it off, and the cuts on his scales ran with blood. But he had no chance to thank her—

It was one of thousands, and more were coming. Ysara ran, slashing left and right, as the [Guards] screamed. And more were coming.

“Gore Shambler! Gore—”

Ysara looked up as the first great beast of the Bloodfields unburied itself from the earth. Her lips moved as it disgorged soil, shambling forwards and ignoring the first arrow that buried itself in its hide.

“Silver and steel.”

She looked around for Ryoka—but she couldn’t see anyone. The Runners were trapped in the midst of the Bloodfields. They were dead.



——



Persua was cowering next to one of the bug-dens, shrieking and crying as she covered her head. Claudeil was smashing smaller bugs—but he couldn’t believe he was alive. His only explanation was that Ryoka had baked this plant with her first flame spells and the bugs were flying everywhere.

Confused in the cold—but more things were waking up. He looked around and spoke.

“We’re leaving.”

Toriska looked up and nodded. There wasn’t any more debate. Persua’s thirst for murder—even Ryoka seemed to have forgotten the death.

She was standing there, just looking around at all this horror. She seemed—peaceful. Horrified—but peaceful.

“I want to go home. I want…to go home. I don’t want this.”

What was she saying? She was mad. Claudeil heard her speaking, as if arguing with herself. But he didn’t care.

“Let’s go. North!”

That was his take. South through the rest of the Bloodfields? The [Merchants] might not make it north, but they were Runners. He stood up and shakily took a few steps forwards. Then he turned back.

“Toriska, get Persua up—”

He had the vague sense to grab his friend—and he turned around and took a step back. That saved his life.

The earth erupted, and a pale tendril as sharp as a needle and tall as he was shot up. It scored straight through his back, laying it open and ignoring the leather armor and clothing he wore. The impact hurled Claudeil to the ground, and he lay there on his front, stunned. Then he screamed, turned—and saw it.

The pale spires. The nearest one was about sixty feet away, towering over them all. The tendril slowly withdrew into the ground, sinking back with unnatural speed into the earth. What—what had hit—

“Its roots! It’s alive! It—”

Toriska screamed at Claudeil, and then as he jerked up, she shouted.

“Don’t move! Don’t—”

In the chaos around him, he saw something bound past him: a braying—deer? It might have been a deer, but it had too many eyes, red and bulbous, like a spider’s, and it had teeth pointed like a carnivore’s for ripping and tearing, and gnarled red horns.

It was chasing something he saw scuttling across the ground with a glowing body. Was that a Cr—

Both creatures vanished as the Watchertree struck again. The first tendril got the bug-thing. It lanced the moving creature, and the stag realized it was in mortal danger. It tried to leap away, making a braying howl—

Until the tendril withdrew into the ground. The stag was about a hundred and twenty feet away when a lance came up from the ground again. It hit the animal in the belly and kept going straight up. And this time…

A crimson pillar let blood soak the ground. Absorbing the blood. Claudeil saw the tendril leave the dead body as the blood was sucked away—and insects in the air landed and began devouring the corpse. More plants began to sense the blood, and some actually uprooted themselves to get closer to the blood and corpse.

Insects. Watchertrees. Death.

This was the Bloodfields. And it was waking up more and more. Claudeil looked around, and now he was frozen, lying on his front. Too afraid to even get up. Persua looked around.

“We’re dead. She’s killed us. That maniac.”

She whispered. Toriska was just…crying.

“Someone—where’s Lady Pathseeker. Someone—help!”

She looked about, but no one was coming. And Ryoka…Claudeil turned to her. She hadn’t moved. She’d seen the Watchertrees move. And he saw it on her face. Terror and—then she looked at him, and he flinched.

Ryoka Griffin stood there, inhaling, exhaling, and she finally pulled the crossbow bolt out of her leg. She drank her last healing potion and almost reached for a little vial on her belt. Or where it should be? Ryoka didn’t find it and after a second—let her hand drop.

She looked over at the frozen Runners. Then she smiled ruefully and, he thought, truthfully. Ryoka raised her voice.

“We’re quits, Persua. If you make it out, that is. I never had the guts to kill you. I’m…sorry it went down this way. I’m going back. I have to try again.”

She twitched. Claudeil saw Ryoka’s body turn north—then twist south. As if something were pulling her. She nearly took a step, and the Watchertree shivered. Ryoka balled up her fists.

“No. No! I will not—I will not make the same mistake again. I’m going back—and nothing will stop me.”

She was glowing. The City Runner stared at her with wide eyes. Was that golden writing in the air? Swirling magic—dragging her south? She pulled at it, and then Claudeil saw something burn up and down Ryoka’s arms. Like the [Merchant] with the silver sword—tattoos of magical writing? Only, this was gold and orange, fiery lines of magic that seared into his eyes.

They were—pulling her, like strings, south. The young woman fought them. She planted her feet—and he heard her cry out.

“I refuse.”

She turned back—and he saw the magic yanking her so hard he thought it might tear the skin off her bones. But this was her or it. And she pulled and pulled—and he saw the writing glow until the magic had a choice.

Her or it. And the spellcaster was not that—cruel—

Ryoka Griffin tore loose from something, and the geas spell exploded in the air like a burning sun. The magical words burst off her skin, flaking and disintegrating into the air with such force that even the monsters and creatures of the Bloodfields recoiled. The Watchertrees shrank and hid a moment. Then, Ryoka Griffin was free.

She stumbled—and then took a step. Her feet bled, and her first step looked as if it might pitch her into the ground. But then she took another and another, and her stride lengthened. In a second, she had taken six steps, and her stride was lengthening.

She ran. Ryoka Griffin ran faster than he had ever seen another Runner move. The earth erupted behind her. Once, twice—she dodged left suddenly, and the pale root of the Watchertree missed her by a foot. She was laughing.

She looked alive. She looked like…a Courier. Ryoka Griffin passed by the other Runners. She ran past the awakening plants, dodging the Watchertrees by sheer speed. She—

Left them behind. Heading towards the fleeing [Merchants]. Away. Leaving Claudeil, Persua, and Toriska to their fate.

“We’re going to die. This is your fault, Persua. Yours.”

Claudeil had dared to push himself up and into a crouch as Ryoka ran past him. But now she was gone—he realized he should have tried to run with her. They needed…

“Crossbow. Where’s my crossbow?”

“You can’t kill that thing. It’s a tree!”

“No, but maybe—throw it, Toriska!”

His friend looked at him—then realized what he meant. If they could distract the Watchertree…

The silent spire shivered when they hurled the crossbow far from them onto the grass. It twitched—but nothing emerged from the ground. Toriska had been ready to bolt—but when nothing happened, she nearly sobbed again.

“What? But it sensed that!”

“It’s not alive. It must know the difference. Why isn’t it getting us?”

They weren’t adventurers. Maybe…Claudeil didn’t know. Maybe it thought they were the other plants and couldn’t tell the difference?

Move and die. No—run. They had to run like Ryoka had. He turned to Persua, Toriska, and wondered if they could do it.

“We can outrun it. All together. We break north. Got it?”

There were more Watchertrees, but if they got out of range of this one, they might find a path around their attack ranges. They had to do it—now.

The insects were growing less confused. Most were heading back to their homes—but the rest? The rest were sensing that there were at least a few more things to eat here. A terrible buzzing was filling the air, but it was Persua who refused.

She shook her head repeatedly.

“We can’t! I’m not that fast—we’ll die.”

“We have to, Persua! There’s no other chance! We’ll all go together, on three. Okay?”

Claudeil shouted at her. He had forgotten her threats—forgotten why they had gone after Ryoka, even. He just wanted to live. He saw her head rise, and she looked more terrified than he had ever seen her.

Then a kind of silent resolve filled her eyes. Persua looked at him, at Toriska, and her mouth opened. She closed it after a second and nodded. Then she gave him a wide, big smile.

“I trust you. Let’s do it. On three.”

He slowly moved his knees around in his crouch, trying not to disturb the ground. The Watchertree was shivering as Persua looked north, and Toriska pointed.

“That way. That’s the most direct path away. Dodge the bugs…”

They were descending. He saw fanged maws, huge wings, moths and…Claudeil spoke.

“Three. Two. One—!”

The three friends were all tensed to run. He was ready. Like Ryoka—he saw the Runner reaching the edge of the Bloodfields. Do or die. Level up. Be a—

In that gap between ‘one’ and ‘zero’, as they were ready to go, Persua moved. She reached out, and with a steady hand—pushed Toriska, who was tensed to break into a sprint.

Pushed her hard enough that the other Runner stumbled forwards. Toriska twisted around, eyes wide, then realized her mistake. Her scream started high.

“Per—”

A crimson spire emerged from the earth in a flash. It ran through Toriska’s stomach, emerged from her back, and Claudeil saw his friend twist and scream, but there was no more air. He stared at her—but then Persua was running.

“Run! Run!”

She took off, around Toriska. Toriska that she had pushed—

Toriska was dead. Claudeil ran after Persua, and if he had a breath to scream at her—he thundered across the ground as the Watchertree sensed the motion and tried to get the other two. Persua dodged left suddenly, and just in time. She screamed as the ground erupted—Claudeil jumped as the Watchertree’s root withdrew and felt another blow to his back.

It tossed him onto the ground, and he lay there, screaming and crying—but then he realized he wasn’t being impaled. He was—he looked back, and the Watchertree was shaking, but he was out of its range.

“I’m alive! I…Toriska?”

She was lying crumpled on the ground. Bugs covered his friend. Claudeil looked back and then got to his feet.

“Persua—”

She hadn’t stopped. But he began to catch up as he ran north. Around the Watchertrees—he was faster than she was. They were both breaking their personal records, though. Claudeil stared at Persua’s back as the bugs came for them. Larger creatures were shambling around, confused by the cooling Bloodfields—but the bugs were fastest.

One tried to take a chunk of his face off. It tore the top of an ear, and he ripped it off with his flesh, screaming. But they were going to make it! Persua threw a centipede with wings off her that was trying to burrow into her flesh. They were going to—

Claudeil saw the bug flying past him, and then Persua’s hand rose. She shot her ice-shard spell into the bugs trying to land on them, then looked at him. Their eyes met as they neared the edge of the Bloodfields, a thousand paces to safety. And he realized she was looking at him with that same big smile. And he realized—

He’d seen her murder Toriska. She—

He tried to dodge. But she shot a shard of ice into his kneecap, and he went down, screaming.

“Persua!”

He would have gotten back up, but she calmly slowed down, aimed her wand, and shot him in the leg eight times. Then she tossed the spent wand aside and kept running.

“This is her fault. Not mine. Sorry, Claudeil—”

She left him as, screaming, the City Runner tried to drag himself forwards. But the bugs were coming. And Persua?

She never looked back.



——



Ryoka Griffin emerged out of the Bloodfields and into the midst of the fleeing [Merchants]. Ysara couldn’t believe her eyes.

“You made it?”

Ryoka seemed just as surprised by Ysara. She panted.

“I just—I ran.”

“You woke up the Bloodfields! Those other Runners—murderers, Gazi the Omniscient, Gnolls—this is a disaster!”

Buleth was babbling, almost sobbing as he looked back at his abandoned wagons and goods. But Ysara just exhaled—hard. Her chests were behind, some lying on the ground—one was on a horse that had run with them.

“We’ll recover it when it freezes, Buleth. Hire a Courier or an adventuring team. Or before—the Bloodfields are cooling down. But there’ll be no more traffic until winter.”

Not for them, at any rate. And Ysara doubted anyone else would want to risk it.

That they had escaped was purely due to their distance from the Bloodfields and the fact that it was off-season. The insects and larger monsters had retreated fast in the cold, more than they had from the magic and blades.

Four [Guards] were down, either wounded or dead. A [Trader], Twodeals, had a huge chunk taken out of one leg, and Ysara had seen one Gnoll merchant who’d been hit by a stray arrow. It was the most merciful battle she had ever seen.

She herself had a gash across her collarbone, and something had taken a bite out of her hand. She only noticed the web between thumb and finger was missing when she checked the blood on her sword.

“I’m sorry.”

Ryoka Griffin stared at the ruined caravan. She looked guilty—but even Buleth took one look at the Human’s shredded feet, the bloodstains from the crossbow bolts, and her ragged clothes and shook his head.

“Nothing to be done. Damn Runners. At least they didn’t make it. I didn’t see more than one running, and hopefully she’s poisoned.”

“Persua…? Then Claudeil and Toriska didn’t…”

Ryoka twisted around and gazed back. She didn’t look happy to realize that two of the Runners were dead. Ysara pointed her blade as she sipped from a potion and handed another to Ryoka.

“I saw one taken by a Watchertree. The other fell—the bugs are all over him. Poor bastard. He might survive if he’s got a potion. If he’s lucky—he won’t have a potion.”

She pointed to a shape two thousand feet behind them in the red grass. She could see little things moving on him even from afar—and he was definitely alive. For now. If she hadn’t pointed Claudeil out, Ryoka would never have picked him out.

The Bloodfields were cooling down, and the Watchertrees were beginning to shrink back down again. But the bugs…Ysara looked around.

“Anyone have a longbow? We could try putting him out of his misery.”

“Let him die slow.”

Buleth muttered. The [Traders] were flowing south, around the Bloodfields, already arguing over who to hire to collect their things. They’d need horses to either tow the broken wagons or buy new ones—recalculate their route for a southern trip.

Ysara doubted she’d see her sister or go north this winter. She had mixed feelings about it. But frankly, even if it was cold, she didn’t want to come back here. Not this year.

“You might want to come with us, Miss Griffin. Looks like you’re going on a delivery after all. Why don’t you join us?”

She looked at Ryoka, and the City Runner said not a word. She was just staring at the figure in the distance. He was trying to drag himself forwards. Claudeil even got up and swung around as if drunk. Ysara thought she could hear a scream, choked. She wanted to put her fingers in her ears.

“I have to go back. I have to say—I’m sorry.”

“Maybe wait until the winter?”

Buleth’s voice was sarcastic, but Ryoka Griffin just looked at the stumbling figure as he fell down again. And her voice…

“Oh hell. I’m…”

She lowered the healing potion from her mouth, and Ysara saw Ryoka Griffin slowly take a step back towards the Bloodfields. This time, the Silver Merchant caught Ryoka’s arm.

“I know you must be crazy—but you barely made it out alive. He can’t run. Those Watchertrees will get you if you slow down. There’s at least one in between you and him. He shot you. He tried to kill you. I’m all for forgiveness, but is it worth dying?”

The other [Merchants] slowed down. Buleth turned in his saddle, and he looked entirely blank—until he saw where Ryoka was looking. Then his gaze turned incredulous.

“Let him suffer. You want to try and…? That’s a terrible way for you to die.”

Claudeil was still screaming. Ysara knew it was true, but her eyes searched Ryoka’s face. Searched for something like her brother. Crazy nobility, the idea that he had to do the ‘right thing’. As if she were looking for the lie in the facade Ryoka was putting on.

But she didn’t see it. She just saw a confused young woman. Hands balled up. Breathing hard, and sweating cold in the fall air. She looked scared…but her feet were pulling her north.

And this time, she gazed back at Ysara.

“Let me try.”

“Tell me why. And it has to be a better reason than ‘you’re not afraid of dying’. Or I swear on my levels I’ll stab you in the leg to save you from yourself.”

The Silver Merchant tightened her grip on Ryoka’s shoulder. The City Runner looked Ysara right in the eyes, perhaps for the first time since they’d met. And her green eyes flickered with guilt and regret.

“I…I could let him die. He’d let me die. But I want to be better. To my friends. To—everyone. I don’t know how. I’m only good at running. I want to do something good.”

The [Merchants] looked at each other, and one of them laughed at her. Ysara? She looked in those earnest eyes. Then she traced the route Ryoka would have to take.

A Watchertree closest to the edges of the Bloodfields was still standing sentinel. Even if Ryoka ran around the rest—Ysara stared at the pale tower of death. She felt the bloodsoaked hilt of her sword in one hand and exhaled slowly. Then she let go of Ryoka.

“Run. I’ll cover you.”

Ryoka Griffin blinked. Buleth twisted around to look at Ysara.

“Ysara!”

But the woman was striding towards the Watchertree. Ryoka Griffin looked at Ysara, and the Silver Merchant turned her head.

“I said run!”

Ryoka Griffin turned. She began running, and Ysara followed her into the Bloodfields. She saw Ryoka speed up, so fast that she thought the young woman was flying across the ground.

She crossed under the aegis of the Watchertree—and the earth exploded under her. But she kept running, and the Watchertree missed her. She was headed straight for the Runner. Ysara?

She halted at the edge of the Watchertree’s perimeter, and saw Ryoka pass by the tree. But she’d have to come back. So Ysara studied the tree. She’d seen how fast it moved.

Ysara was not her brother. She was no [Knight]. Her years training as a [Warrior] were long behind her. But…she lifted the blade overhead, and silver flashed from her grip as she called out.

“This sword is the heirloom of my house. It is my past. Silver and steel be my guide. In the name of the Silver Dragon!”

Then she walked forwards onto the crimson grass. The Watchertree shivered, and Buleth shouted with the rest of the [Merchants] and [Guards].

“Ysara!”

The Silver Merchant stepped left, whirling in a single move as if she were on the practice courts of the keep back home. She unsheathed her sword and twirled with it in two hands. It slashed down as the first root-spike shot from the ground.

Her sword bit deep into the Watchertree’s roots, and red ichor, thick sap, ran from the wound. Quick as a flash, it withdrew into the earth, and Ysara saw the Watchertree shaking ominously. But she was already leaping back as a second root rose.

The sword of an ancient family cut the air, and she was dancing, stepping, refusing to stand in one place.

“[Quicksilver Cut].”

Her blade was ringing with the force of trying to hew through something elastic, rubbery, hardened flesh or wood. Blood ran down her arms. Or was it sap?

Something struck her in the sword-shoulder. It lanced straight through her flesh, and Ysara staggered. But then she took her sword in two hands again and hacked through the root. When she looked up—

She saw Ryoka Griffin running back towards her. The Silver Merchant saw a tide of insects following her. But the young woman had Claudeil over one shoulder, and she was running—running—

She passed into the reach of the Watchertree, and she was slower than the first time, weighed down, tired. But Ysara was there, and Ryoka dodged the next root as the bleeding Watchertree struck. She pivoted—and swung with all her strength.

Her blade shattered as it lodged halfway through the root, and the Watchertree jerked, and she felt a tremor run through the ground as its agony made the earth shake. Ysara felt her blade crack and shatter, and she saw the silver blade vanish, still embedded in the root. She gazed at the hilt of her broken sword. Then—Ryoka was running past her, a wide-eyed young man clinging to her, covered in blood. And Ysara?

She laughed. She raised the sword hilt high as she stepped back—then she threw the hilt down. The broken tip of the sword stuck in the grass. Ysara turned and walked back the way she’d come.



——



When I stop breathing hard, when my lungs stop screaming—I can’t believe I’m alive. But the Silver Merchant, Ysara, is the person I stare at.

She—killed a Watchertree? Or beat it. I saw her dodging the roots and cutting like some kind of heroine from stories. Even Yvlon couldn’t do that, I think. Could Gerial? Calruz?

“Your sword—”

I’ve cost her and the merchants their caravan. They’re still heading south, although they’ve stopped to pour healing potions on Claudeil. He’s alive. He’s staring at me, and I…

“Forget it. I never liked it, anyways. It’s just a sword. I used it for something worthy. I think even my father would be proud.”

There’s a hole in her shoulder, and she looks like she’s badly hurt. But Ysara gives me a smile and—she’s so badass.

I want to thank her. I have to—but Ysara just looks north.

“If you’re going to make it, that Watchertree will probably be dangerous in an hour or less. I’ve just wounded it. If you come south, I’d love the company. I’ll wager we’ll get free drinks enough to recoup my losses, at least.”

She winks at me, and I waver. But Ysara is looking north, and I stare back the way I’ve come.

Liscor. Liscor, right? I’m shaking. I’m—sad that Toriska is dead. I look at Claudeil. He’s panting, staring at me like an idiot.

“She tried to get me killed. Persua. You…why’d you come back for me?”

“I don’t know.”

He looks at me as confused as I am. But Ysara just exhales. She rubs at her shoulder as one of the [Guards] presses a rag dipped in potion onto it.

“You—Claudeil?”

He flinches because none of the [Merchants] look happy to see him. But Ysara just points down at him.

“You won’t be going north. That girl—Persua? Did she get away?”

“I think so. I…”

Is she going to kill him? Buleth, the Drake, looks ready to, but Ysara’s lip just twists.

“Swear on a truth stone you’ll never join her. Swear—and we’ll settle your debts like [Merchants]. We’ll take care of him.”

She nods at me. I hope that doesn’t mean he’ll be tortured—but it sounds like they have an idea. Buleth nods sharply.

“We’re not Roshal. We’ll just work you like Lizardfolk. Maybe we’ll make him grab our Chests of Holding.”

“Later. Let’s get out of here. Miss Ryoka?”

She knows. I’m shaking again, and I’m trying not to cry.

“I should stay and thank you—”

Ysara’s eyes are pale silver and faintly, faintly, brown. She smiles at me.

“Do you have more people you need to apologize to? Your friends?”

“Yes.”

Her and the Horns and…the Silver Merchant points a bloody finger along the Bloodfields. The wounded Watchertree is half-buried in the ground. It’s dangerous—but the magic on me is broken.

“Then go and apologize to them. Then—when we meet, you can thank me in person. I will see you again, someday. Next year or later. [Merchants], like Runners, go everywhere.”

She is so. Cool. Then Ysara offers me a hand, and I take it. I turn—and despite my wounds, despite all of it, I feel—what’s the word?

Shriven? Lighter? At peace? Nothing is perfect.

But I want to try. So I begin to run. I run and run—back the way I’ve come. There’s nothing for me this way. Only death and some kind of meaningless thrill before I die.

My friends are back there. I want to meet them. I want…



——



So Ryoka Griffin runs. She runs, crying like a baby and tripping over her steps. But she’s free. To Liscor. Running through the evening into night, back the way she’s come. She doesn’t care about Persua. Even if the other Runner is alive—it doesn’t matter.

She just wants to go home. Even if she doesn’t know where it is yet.



[Skill – Indomitable Will learned!]

[Skill Refused. Skill Canceled. Level Up Cancelled.]



She doesn’t need it. She just wants to be free. And—she wants her friends.



The Bloodfields by Enuryn





1.56


“Fire! Put out the fire!”

Of all the ways to wake up, hearing that shouted from below still beat being stabbed in the chest. But the Horns of Hammerad were still out of bed and racing downstairs within seconds of hearing it.

A cloud of black smoke billowed out of the kitchen as Erin stumbled out, hacking and coughing. Toren followed her, holding a smoking, flaming pan. He charged outside, and the Horns of Hammerad saw him hurl the pan to the ground and begin stomping on whatever had been inside.

The smoke began to clear a bit, but it still stung the eyes. The smell of burnt grease and charcoal lingered unpleasantly in the air.

Erin stared up at the adventurers staring down at her from the staircase. She grinned weakly and waved.

“Oh. Hi. Um. Anyone want pancakes?”



——



Much to Erin’s surprise, the Horns of Hammerad actually knew what pancakes were. Apparently, pancakes weren’t a product of the modern age, and so she served several heaping plates to her guests until they were all full.

Pancakes were fun. Pancakes were easy to make. Erin could let Toren stir the batter together while she cooked them on a pan over the fire. She used a spatula and oiled her pan well to get the pancakes to stop sticking. She’d tried flipping it like chefs did on TV, but she stopped after the pancakes kept landing on Toren and the fire.

She joined them for the last bit of the meal once she’d reached a critical mass of pancake. Erin munched on her food as the adventurers ate their way back into the waking world.

“What was all that about?”

Erin looked at the bald mage and tried to remember his name. Soulstorm? It was something like that.

“Oh, uh, I was trying to teach him how to cook.”

Erin pointed to Toren as the skeleton walked into the room with a pitcher of milk. She accepted a refill of the glass as the other adventurers stared at her.

“What? I thought it would be easy. Fun fact: it’s not.”

“A skeleton…cooking?”

“Well, he already does all the other chores. If he could do stuff like make eggs, stir soup, and flip pancakes, it’d make my life even easier. But, uh, skeletons don’t really understand the difference between ‘cooked’ and ‘burned’.”

Gerial exchanged a glance with the half-Elf and shook his head. But Ceria looked intrigued.

“It’s not a bad idea. I’m still not sure what Pisces was thinking, giving you only one skeleton as a guard, but I suppose that’s all your mana supply could take.”

Erin froze, fork stuck in her food.

“My what? I don’t have any magic. I mean, I can’t use magic.”

Ceria frowned at Erin.

“Really? Who told you that?”

“Pisces.”

“Ah. But I wasn’t talking about spellcasting. I just meant your internal mana supply.”

Ceria looked around and saw blank faces around her, except for the other mage.

“Oh come on. You all know you have magic inside of you, right?”

Gerial looked down at his stomach, bemused.

“We do?”

“Of course. Magic is part of us. It’s in the air we breathe, the food we eat—we all have our own supply of mana, however small. My kind has a great deal of internal magic we generate simply by existing, so we make good mages. Humans on the other hand—”

She shrugged and bit into a piece of pancake. She chewed and spoke around her food.

“Not as much. But exceptions exist, and they make good mages. But even if you don’t cast spells, you have some mana in you. Enough to sustain basic spells or supply a summoned creature with enough magic to survive if it can’t by itself.”

“So I have magic? In me? Does that mean if Toren wasn’t here I’d—be able to cast spells?”

Ceria paused and shook her head sympathetically.

“I’m sorry. But if Pisces tested you, it’s unlikely. Maybe there’s a better chance, but…”

“Oh.”

Erin said it quietly. She kept eating in silence as the other adventurers spoke.

“I’d like to go into the city and collect our share of the supplies. We also need to visit the Adventurer’s Guild to make sure we’re still cleared to enter the ruins. But, ah, we can’t go if that adventurer is still around.”

Calruz scowled as he ate two pancakes in a single bite.

“Gazi the Omniscient. It would be inconvenient if she were to trouble us now. I will go with you.”

Erin blinked and looked up from her plate.

“Gazi? Oh, she’s gone.”

The other Horns of Hammerad stared at her.

“Are you sure?”

“Yeah. She told me she was going and looking for something. Somewhere else.”

Erin was aware of the other adventurers sharing a look at the table, but she didn’t understand what it meant. It was just a look that told you it was significant but didn’t share any of the details. It could be that it was a look to signify the world was changing and those present were at the precipice of a new era. Or it could be a look to subtly acknowledge some unlucky person had stepped in dog poo and hadn’t noticed. You couldn’t tell.

“Well then, that makes things simpler. At least for now.”

Gerial shook his head and stood up from the table.

“We’ll see if anything else needs doing in the city. Calruz, do you still want to join us?”

The Minotaur snorted.

“There is no need to waste any more time with useless chattering and polishing weapons. Tomorrow, we fight. Tell the others I will be ready when the time comes.”

The adventurers nodded and began trooping out the door. Erin stared at their dirty dishes and pointed silently to Toren and then at the table. The skeleton obediently walked over and began to gather them.

Calruz was still eating, but Erin could hear the other adventurers debating how to spend their last day. Some were in favor of buying trinkets to send to family, others to see what kind of entertainment was available in the city. Erin clearly heard Gerial talking casually to the others as he closed the door behind him.

“That’s odd. Was that large rock there yesterday?”

Erin shot up in her seat.

“Wait!”

She threw the door open and caught the adventurers as they were descending the hill. Erin desperately waved her arms at them and shouted incoherently.

“Stop! Hold it! Don’t go any further!”

They turned and stared. Erin pointed with a trembling finger at the large, conspicuously inconspicuous boulder casually blocking their path towards the city.

“Stay right there! If the rock moves, hit it or cast a spell or something!”

“Hit the rock?”

Perplexed, Gerial and the other adventurers stared at the hidden Rock Crab. Ceria, on the other hand, narrowed her eyes and took a few steps back.

Erin rushed inside her inn and came out a few seconds later with a basket full of seed cores. Calruz followed her and stared at the giant boulder.

“What are you worried about?”

Erin grabbed one of the seed cores carefully and held it in one hand. She pointed at the boulder as she glared at Calruz.

“There’s a monster down there.”

He squinted.

“I don’t see it. Is it hiding in the ground?”

“No!”

Erin pointed again.

“See that? That thing?”

Calruz looked. He frowned.

“That is a boulder. What of it?”

Ceria coughed.

“It’s actually not, Calruz. It’s a monster, hiding under the rock. What you’re actually looking at is a shell.”

The other adventurers reacted to that news. Several swore, and those holding weapons backed up as they gripped their weapon hilts.

“Are you sure?”

The half-Elf nodded. Her wise, half-Elven eyes…looked pointedly at the edge of the rock, devoid of moss or other signs the rock had been rooted in the ground for a long time, and Erin’s face.

“I didn’t see it at first, but there’s definitely something odd about that boulder. It looks too—out of place. See how the grass is flattened around it? And it hasn’t sunk into the earth as it should have over time.”

Gerial frowned as he half-unsheathed his sword.

“I believe you, but my [Dangersense] hasn’t gone off.”

“Not everything trips [Dangersense]. And if it’s a sneak attack, you’d have to be right next to the creature, and by that point, you’d be dead.”

He blew out his mustache.

“Fair point. Well, how do you want to tackle it? Freezing spells and then we charge in?”

Calruz nodded. He reached for his axe.

“I’ll break its shell.”

“No need.”

To the adventurers’ surprise, Erin walked forwards.

“I can totally scare it off.”

Calruz’s face was a statement of incredulity.

“Impossible.”

“Watch me.”

Erin took aim and threw. Her first seed core splattered harmlessly against the Rock Crab’s shell. The second and third did the same as blue-gray seeds and liquid began trickling down the side of the boulder.

The adventurers were just starting to fidget in place when the Rock Crab suddenly lurched to its feet. They immediately readied their weapons, but the giant crab began scuttling away as Erin threw several more Seed Cores after it. Courtesy of her Skill, each one struck the shell until the Rock Crab scuttled over a hilltop and disappeared.

Erin turned, smiling, and saw the Horns of Hammerad staring at her, slack-jawed.

“How did you do that?”

She showed them the seed cores and explained about the strange trees in the orchard she’d found. Ceria frowned at the small cores.

“I think I know what you’re talking about. Can I see one of those, ah, seed cores?”

“Here.”

Erin casually tossed a seed core at Ceria. The half-Elf yelped, desperately grabbed the pod, and held it gingerly in her hands as if it were a live grenade.

“Tree kissing rot! Don’t do that!”

“Why?”

Ceria’s hand shook as she very carefully held the seed core in her hand. Her’s eyes bulged.

“We’ve been drinking this? Are you insane?”

“Just the outer part! I know how to pick ones where the core isn’t broken! Honest! You’re not dead, so I’m right.”

Erin hurried to reassure Ceria. The half-Elf looked pale, but after a while, she accepted that Erin probably hadn’t poisoned them.

Gerial frowned at the seed cores in Erin’s basket, confused.

“That explains why the crab ran off. But why is it afraid of a tiny bit of poison? It’s a lot bigger than we are.”

“It must not have strong resistance to poison. Either that or it has no way to reduce the buildup of toxins like we do. Those crab-creatures might carry the sickness within them for the rest of their lives if they’re not careful.”

Gerial and the other adventurers muttered as Erin handed Toren the seed cores to put back in the inn. This time, far away from the kitchen.

“Well, you saved our hides from a nasty encounter. That thing was big, and I don’t relish wasting any more healing potions before we go into the ruins.”

“Mm.”

Calruz folded his arms and stared at the place where the Rock Crab had been. He didn’t appear particularly impressed.

“Go, then. I will remain here.”

Ceria and the others eyed him curiously.

“Doing what? Sleeping?”

“No. Teaching.”



——



“Only Calruz would think about teaching an [Innkeeper] to fight.”

Gerial shook his head as he and Ceria pushed their way into the local Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. The building was far smaller than they were used to and bustling with activity. Countless Bronze-rank adventurers were trying to turn in bounties on monsters or take the few requests posted on the jobs board.

“Here.”

Ceria pointed, and the two got into the shortest line. They kept talking as a harried-looking Drake receptionist dealt with the adventurers in front of them.

“I mean, why does she need training? You saw how she handled that crab thing.”

“That’s not the same as knowing how to fight. And besides, those seed cores won’t do much good against a group of bandits or even a few Goblins.”

Ceria had to raise her voice to talk over the hubbub in the room. The receptionist in front of them had a loud voice, and she was using it liberally as she dealt with the line in front of them.

“Look, I don’t care how the Human cities do it. We don’t give out bounties for beating up [Thugs]. How do you know they were guilty anyways? Did you just beat up some kids? In the future, let the Watch take care of it. Next!”

“Still. Do you think he’s going to teach her how to use a weapon? In a day?”

“It’s Calruz. He probably expects Erin to be like Minotaur children. They grow up knowing how to use a blade.”

“Evil Goblins? Robbing you? And what are we supposed to do about it? Go and post a bounty if you’re that upset. But they’re Goblins. Go grab a sword and deal with it yourself!”

“I hope he goes easy on her. I’d hate for him to hurt her accidentally.”

“You Humans. Always so worried. She’s survived this far. Calruz won’t kill her by the time we get back. Probably.”

“No, there are no more requests available. Sorry. Next! You two, the Human and, er, pointy-eared Human! I’m assuming you’re a half-Elf, but let me know if I’m wrong.”

Gerial and Ceria looked up. Selys waved at them, and they approached.

“What can I do for you? And if it’s about lodging or supplies, don’t bother. The Guild is all out of everything.”

“No, ah, it’s not that, Miss.”

Gerial cleared his throat and smiled at Selys. The Drake did not return the smile.

“We’re part of the Horns of Hammerad. We—and four other teams—put in a request a few days ago to enter the ruins as part of an expedition. We were wondering if we had permission—”

“Oh, you’re that lot.”

Selys’s eyes widened, and she stared at Gerial and Ceria.

“You’re one of the first non-Drake Silver-rank teams we’ve had in the city in a while. I expected you’d be bigger. And don’t you have a Minotaur in your group? Please don’t let him cause any damage.”

She rushed on before either adventurer could respond.

“Anyways, the Guild already approved your request, so there’s nothing to worry about. Go right ahead.”

Both Ceria and Gerial exchanged a quizzical glance. Gerial cleared his throat.

“Um. We don’t need any seals? Any letters or proof we can enter?”

This time, it was Selys’ turn to look confused.

“Why would you need anything like that? You’re adventurers, right? Just go out and kill monsters and try not to get killed.”

“Oh it’s just—”

“It’s just that in Human cities, adventuring is a lot more regulated.”

Ceria leaned over the counter and smiled at Selys.

“We don’t want to cause any trouble, being outsiders and all.”

Selys smiled at Ceria, her eyes flicking to the half-Elf’s pointed ears.

“Well, I appreciate that. Most of you Humans—er, the Humans we get don’t obey many of our laws. If you could clear out those ruins so they all go away, I think the city would throw you a celebration.”

“Something to look forwards to. We’re heading in tomorrow. So just to clarify—there’s nothing we need to do?”

Selys waved one hand.

“You’re fine. Go in whenever you like—just don’t bring any trouble out with you. The Watch is busy enough as it is.”

She turned to call for the next adventurer when another Drake walked over and put a hand on Selys’ shoulder. The other Drake murmured in Selys’ ear. She called out to Gerial and Ceria as they were about to leave.

“Wait! You two!”

They turned. Selys flashed them another smile.

“Sorry, but you’re from the north, aren’t you? There’s an annoying Human [Messenger] in the city, and he keeps bothering people.”

“Oh?”

Intrigued, Gerial and Ceria returned to the counter. Gossip and rumor were the lifeblood of an adventurer, and they were always curious about politics, even in cities like Liscor.

“Apparently, he’s come representing some flower. No—oh! I see. House Reinhart. That makes more sense.”

Selys rolled her eyes. She seemed to vaguely recognize the name, but that was all. For the Humans of the north—

“House Reinhart? Which Lady?”

The [Receptionist]’s overworked shrug said it all. This wasn’t even her job—but because her grandmother was the Adventurer Guild’s [Guildmistress], sometimes people came to her to ask for help.

“I didn’t ask. That’s what he’s saying. He wants to talk to someone important. Well, we have a Council, but they’re not going to listen to every Human noble who comes calling. But he’s persistent, and he won’t go away. Is this important?”

“It’s one of the Five Families!”

“The—oh, yeah. I know. But it’s the north’s Five Families. They don’t have any power here. You’re lucky I recognized it—I don’t even think I could name all five.”

If anything, realizing this came from a northern power seemed to make the Drakes less inclined to want to hear the [Messenger] out. But Ceria had a feeling she knew exactly who was asking—

“You don’t know the Five Families by heart?”

Selys rolled her eyes and twitched her tail in annoyance. She glowered at Sostrom. Sostrom, who didn’t know about Gazi of Reim, but who did know about this.

“Listen. They’re your Five Families. Not mine. You want me to name all six Walled Cities? I can do that. Any child could. I think I have them. It’s Reinhart, Veltras, El…no, wait…”

Gerial took over for her with a smile as she frowned.

“The Reinharts, Veltras, Terland, Wellfar, and El families were the first Humans to ever settle on this continent. They were aristocracy—related to kings from the continent Terandria. They’re still very rich and influential today.”

Selys nodded, moderately grateful to him.

“See? I knew that. Just not their names. Like—El? What kind of name is that? You Humans and your strange names.”

She shook her head and continued.

“—I know they’re influential, but Liscor isn’t ruled by Human nobility. They literally have no power here, and so if some ‘Reinhart’ wants to talk to the Council…”

Her look said that it sounded like a pain and no wonder the Council didn’t want to deal with it. Not that Liscor’s Council did much. But Ceria now stepped in and leaned over the counter. The busy [Receptionists], the Drake asking for Selys’ advice, weren’t too interested. Until Ceria said the other name, which the [Messenger] should have led with.

“What about Magnolia Reinhart?”

It was a fallacy of Izril’s northern Humans to think that the Five Families’ names would instantly carry as much weight as they did in the north. But the other name?

Gerial saw Selys’ head snap up in an instant. Her quill stopped writing notes in her ledger as her eyes widened.

“Magnolia Reinhart? Wait, you think it’s her?”

“What’s the difference? She’s House Reinhart, and it is probably her.”

Sostrom was still peeved, but Selys gave him a look as if the man were stupid.

“Reinhart nothing. Lady Magnolia was the one who fought in the Antinium Wars! She broke the siege of Liscor! Naane—run to the Council! Tell them it’s her, not some random [Lady]! Of all the stupid—she’s like the one Human we’d hear out!”

In Drake lands, she was one of a handful of Humans you’d know. Tyrion Veltras, perhaps, the war-leader, Magnolia Reinhart—maybe another matriarch like Maviola El—but Magnolia was the only one who might even possibly be respected.

The other receptionist practically sprinted out of the building. Selys stared at her back and then shook her head. She looked at the Horns, and they gazed at her, looking slightly triumphant. Though they, ironically, didn’t know Magnolia’s full weight in Liscor. Selys stared at the heaving room of mostly Humanity and sighed. Then she smiled at Gerial and raised her voice.

“Next!”



——



Erin made a fist with her hands. She raised it and prepared to punch. Then she hesitated.

“Aren’t you going to block?”

Calruz shook his head.

“Give me your strongest punch. I wish to feel it.”

Erin nodded. She raised her fist again and then hesitated again.

“You’re sure I can hit you?”

Calruz snorted impatiently.

“If you can injure me, I will hang up my axe and cease living as a warrior this instant.”

“Fine then. You asked for it!”

Erin clenched her hand tightly. She breathed in and out quickly a few times, trying to psyche herself up. Somehow, even though Calruz was just standing in the grass outside of her inn, he suddenly looked huge—that was, even taller than he already was.

Three hundred pounds and closer to seven feet than six of solid Minotaur loomed over Erin. She took a deep breath and attacked.

“Hiyah!”

Erin tried to punch hard and fast. Her fist struck Calruz in his stomach, and she yelped.

“Ow!”

His abs were like stone.

“Try again.”

Erin did. Her fist bounced off of Calruz’s stomach.

“Ow! Why do I feel like I’m hurting myself more than you?”

“Your form is terrible.”

“Thanks.”

“It is not a compliment.”

Calruz sighed.

“Do you not even know how to punch properly?”

Erin stared at him.

“Is there a way to punch right? Don’t you just make a fist and—”

She punched at the air and then saw Calruz’s expression.

“Well, I don’t know! I’ve never been in a fight before I came here!”

This time, it was Calruz’s turn to eye Erin.

“Never?”

“Never.”

“What about your creature? Surely it knows how to do battle.”

Calruz pointed at Toren, who was silently watching him teach Erin. The skeleton made a fist. It looked okay to Erin, but Calruz took one look and shook his head.

“That neither you nor your—pet know how to defend yourselves is a shame. Were you never taught how to fight?”

The Minotaur looked both surprised and disgruntled. He shook his head unhappily.

“I see I have much to teach you. Starting with how to strike.”

“What about your skill? That [Hammer Blow] attack was amazing! How about you teach me how to do that?”

“Someone who cannot even punch properly would never learn a Skill.”

That made sense, but Erin had more questions. She hadn’t really been able to ask Calruz yesterday, what with having to cook dinner.

“Okay, your skill is super-advanced. But how do you do it? I mean, is it magic?”

Calruz snorted.

“I am no mage. That was a Skill. It allows me to transcend my hardest strike and turn it into something even stronger.”

“Yeah…I still don’t get it.”

Erin pointed at Calruz’s axe.

“If you swing that thing as hard as you can, how can you somehow hit harder than your hardest hit? Um. What I meant was—”

“It is the act of exceeding one’s limits.”

Calruz tapped the handle of the axe on his back. Toren had barely managed to get it out of the ground, but the Minotaur swung it around easily.

“There is art in this. My kind practices little magic. There are war mages, and we do study in places like Wistram—but we respect martial ability more often.”

He snorted dismissively.

“Nevertheless, we respect the art of war in magic, engineering, and all forms. We understand honing one’s techniques, learning systematically. And this—we understand the flow of combat. To learn and use such Skills, you must forget your frailties and strike with heart.”

“That sounds deep. Like a martial art.”

Erin expected him to give her a blank look, but the Minotaur only smiled, and his blue eyes lit up a bit.

“The House of Minos learned from [Martial Artists] to create the basis of our hand-to-hand training. I am surprised you know of it. Most Izrilians are ignorant [Brawlers]. What do you know of such things?”

Erin was the one flat-footed, and she tried to gesture and do karate-chops.

“I know it’s good! It’s sort of like…um…a way to fight with your hands? You kick and punch in special ways. And footwork and stuff.”

Calruz actually winced as he watched her, but he gave a slow nod.

“That…proves you know what it is, if nothing of it.”

“Hey! Fair.”

He went on.

“I know a Human who fights with her fists. She is…skilled. But wild. And she does not understand. She fights with cunning and grace, but she only fights at her limit. She does not think she can go further. Thus—she never will.”

He stared off into the distance.

“She lacks vision. I will make her understand that.”

That made no sense to Erin, but it was nice to see that Calruz had a crush on someone. She just hoped whomever it was appreciated big…bull guys. Somehow, she had doubts about his romantic prospects, but she continued asking questions.

“So what’s the key behind a Skill opposed to just fighting good? Desire?”

Calruz returned to their discussion, which was, Erin realized, straying from what she’d hear from some practitioner on Earth. There was—ability to fight—and Skills. And it was Skills that Calruz was trying to teach her about.

“Not just desire. It is the refinement of a single strike into a moment of perfection. But that is something far beyond you at this moment. For now, you must learn to punch.”

He held up a massive hand, twice as big as hers, palm towards her.

“Strike my palm. I will show you how to attack properly.”

Erin made a fist. Calruz immediately shook his head.

“Not like that. You will break your fingers if you strike unevenly.”

He held up his other hand and made a fist. It looked like a furry brick, and Erin wondered what would happen if he hit her with it.

“Like this. Strike with your knuckles here and here. And keep your thumb outside your fist.”

Calruz pointed to Erin’s index and ring fingers, demonstrating with his own fist. She copied him, awkwardly shifting her fingers into the right positions.

“And then when you strike, step forwards and move your hips like so.”

He shifted his hips as he threw a lightning-fast jab. Erin blinked. She felt the wind from his arm.

“Okay let me try. Like—this?”

She punched his hand. It felt better, somehow. She could put more weight into it. Calruz grunted and nodded.

“Again.”

Erin punched again and again, switching hands at his directive. He nodded after a few more tries.

“Good. That is the proper technique. Now—kick!”

He showed Erin how to kick at his midsection and had her try. Twice, she fell down, but after about ten minutes, she was kicking hard enough to make him block with two hands rather than one.

“Now, the skeleton. Punch it.”

Erin eyed Toren. He immediately raised his hands like Calruz, but the Minotaur pointed at him.

“You. Thing. Dodge her.”

The skeleton turned its head to Calruz silently, as if wondering whether it should obey. But it started dodging left and right.

“Try to strike it.”

Erin did. Toren dodged. He was quite quick. She punched and kicked, but he kept on dodging.

“You are painfully slow. Move faster! Don’t strike where he is, but where he will be.”

Calruz gave her advice—or insulted her as Erin tried, sweating. She punched at Toren, and he leaned back effortlessly.

“Fast. Faster. Pull back your arm quickly.”

Erin chased Toren around fruitlessly for a few minutes and then stopped and glared at Calruz.

“Why am I learning to fight with my fists? Shouldn’t I be using a sword?”

He shook his head.

“I am teaching you a basic truth. You must know how to fight without weapons, or it will be a weakness others will exploit. Besides, you understand nothing of the flow of combat. You must learn to strike your opponent before you are worthy of using a blade.”

He looked at Toren. The skeleton wasn’t winded from dodging Erin, having no lungs to worry about, but Erin was sweaty and gasping for air.

“Very well. We shall try something else. The skeleton shall guard, and you will break through. Punch him, kick him. Destroy your opponent.”

Something about the way he said that bothered Erin. She squared up against Toren and tried a punch. This time, the skeleton blocked it.

“Ow.”

“If you break your fingers or cut your skin, there are potions. Keep attacking.”

Erin did. Toren had a harder time blocking her. She was stronger than he was, which was odd to think of. Erin punched, and he shifted backwards in the grass slightly as his arm caught her fist. She kicked, and he stumbled.

Erin waited for Toren to regain his balance, which earned her a roar of disapproval from Calruz.

“Don’t stop! Press the attack! Your goal is to defeat your enemy. Hurt him. Mercy is a luxury only the strong can afford. Attack until he lies in pieces.”

Again, the words bothered Erin. But she punched anyways. It was easy. So long as Toren just blocked and didn’t jump around, she could feint a punch and then kick—

This time, her foot kicked one leg out from under the skeleton. He fell to one knee, and Erin stepped forwards and punched him in the face. His head twisted sideways. Erin ignored the stinging in her hand and raised it again to knock him down.

She stared down at the empty skull and froze. For a second, she was on the ground staring up at a Goblin Chieftain with a sword in his hands. She smelled burning flesh.

She remembered. She remembered another face. Klbkch. And a pool of green blood. She held him in her arms as he died.

Slowly, Toren righted himself and got to his feet. He stared at Erin—as did Calruz. She couldn’t know that her face had gone deadly white or that she was suddenly shaking.

“I can’t do this.”

Calruz shook his head.

“You must. You must learn to fight.”

“No.”

Erin shook her head, or was it her entire body that shook? She felt sick. She was close to throwing up.

“I can’t. I’m no warrior.”

Unbidden, the words she’d dreamed of spoke themselves. Her childhood rhyme.

“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”

Calruz stared at her.

“What does that mean?”

“It means—it means that whenever I got into trouble before, I always got people killed. Or I killed. I nearly died. I can’t do it. Better to just let Toren learn to fight. Teach him instead.”

Erin pointed at Toren. The skeleton nodded, but Calruz shook his head.

“Your king. In times of need, even he defends himself, does he not?”

He meant real kings, but it was true of chess as well.

“Only as a last resort.”

“This is the last resort I speak of. Someday, you will surely be alone and without anyone to protect you. Will you die then or fight?”

Erin didn’t have any good comeback to that. She bowed her head until the Minotaur murmured.

“Striking a downed opponent may be wrong.”

There was something in Calruz’s voice that made Erin look up. He didn’t bark his next few words but spoke more quietly, choosing them carefully.

“Perhaps—yes. There is more honor in you than I thought. Very well. I have little time, so I shall simply teach you to fight. If you practice against your creature, you may learn the basics quickly enough.”

He gestured, and Toren raised his guard again.

“The skeleton will block. Simply strike at him. He is dead, so it matters little what you do. Forget death and battle for the moment. Simply know the purity of combat.”

That sounded better. Erin nodded and stood straight. She made a fist, and Toren blocked.

“That doesn’t mean strike like a pathetic weakling! Hit harder!”

Erin did.

“Ow.”

It wasn’t as if there were any soft part on Toren to hit. Erin punched again, and her fist collided with his bony arm.

“Ow.”

After a few minutes, Calruz had Erin learn to block. This time, Toren attacked, striking her hands and arms hard. But it was easy. Surprisingly easy to see everything coming. Erin’s arms hurt, but the skeleton never landed a punch or kick on her. He was probably taking it easy like Calruz, but the Minotaur seemed approving.

“Now—a spar.”

“Can’t we rest instead?”

Erin complained as she rubbed at her arms. She needed a healing potion. She could already feel the bruises.

“No. Consider this a final test. Both of you—spar with each other. You are a good match. Equally weak. Well, the skeleton knows how to fight, but it should be good practice.”

She wanted to protest, but arguing with Calruz was worse than trying to shift a stubborn bull. Erin stumbled towards Toren as the skeleton raised his guard. He feinted at her. Mechanically, she blocked.

Blocking was easy. Punching was easy. It was too easy. Fighting was—wasn’t something Erin liked.

Toren kicked at her chest, and Erin’s arm was pushed away. He punched her in the breast.

“Ow! Hey—”

His fist caught her in the jaw. Erin stumbled and then got mad. She caught his fist and slugged Toren in the head. This time, he stepped back. The skeleton carefully eyed Erin and then charged.

That was too fast. And he’d never tried that on Erin. But she was angry now. She stepped sideways at the last moment and rammed him from the side. Toren went sprawling, and Erin kicked him in the ribs as he was getting up.

She didn’t see how Calruz’s eyes widened as she blocked Toren as he rapidly struck at her face and sides, kicking, punching without landing a hit on her. Erin was just acting on instinct. Toren was so slow. He was a fighting machine, but he fought like a machine. He wasn’t original.

She stomped on his foot and pushed him down. Toren rolled as she kicked at him and leapt to his feet. He feinted at her face. Erin didn’t move. She could tell it was fake. Toren pulled his fist back, confused. Erin hit him futilely in the shoulder. The problem was that she couldn’t really hurt him. He was all bones.

But she was winning. She could feel it.

Erin was still sick. And tired. And her hands hurt. But there was something else there, too.

Frustration. And a bit of anger.

No—not just a bit. A quiet ocean, sitting just below the depths of Erin’s thoughts. A part of her hated violence. But another part was relieved she could fight back. It wanted her to never be helpless. It was anger and something else.

And it felt—good to let it out.

Toren punched and received a cross-counter to the face. Erin didn’t know that was what she did. She just saw the opening and took it.

She kicked, and Toren blocked. She dodged a fist to her side and slapped his arm down before hitting his arms as he covered his face.

His guard was faltering. Erin felt a rush of energy. She punched faster, putting her hips into the blow like Calruz had shown her. More strength. She was stronger than Toren, thanks to her Skill.

She just wanted to knock that stupid skeleton down. He kept coming at her, again and again. It didn’t matter that she hit him. He was dead, and he had no flesh to bruise. But he didn’t hold back, and her arms were hurting.

Toren had just kicked Erin’s leg, and she was staggering. But she saw him run at her, and something in her mind clicked. She stood up, raised her hand, took one step, and kicked.

One of Toren’s legs broke. Not the bones themselves—but the leg disconnected, and the skeleton went down. He raised his arms and saw Erin’s fist flying at his head.

She felt it. A perfect strike. A moment of truth. Erin put her entire body into one hit, throwing her entire weight into a strike that smashed right through Toren’s guard and crashed into where his nose would have been if he was alive.

Thud.

His head detached. In slow motion, Erin saw the skeleton’s head fly off the body. She stared as Toren’s head flew off the top of the hill, bounced down the incline, and rolled to a stop fifty feet away.

Erin stared at the upright torso of Toren in shock. After a second, it buckled and fell down.

She stared at her hand. She’d opened up the skin on her knuckles, and she was bleeding. But she’d felt it. She’d hit Toren harder than she’d ever hit—or done—anything in her life. She’d felt it.

Erin stared around. She wanted to know if that was what Calruz was talking about. She looked at the Minotaur. He was gaping at her, mouth wide open, eyes bulging.

After a few moments, Calruz closed his mouth. He stared at Toren and then at Erin. He cleared his throat a few times and then looked at Erin.

“…Can you do that again?”



——



“Take a good look at this.”

Gerial whistled and beckoned to Ceria. She broke off her conversation with Yvlon, and both women walked over to see what was so interesting.

Cervial held up a massive crossbow, sleek black metal and pointed death. It wasn’t currently loaded, of course, but just by looking, the two adventurers could see how much power it had.

He grinned at Yvlon and held it out to her. She accepted it carefully and stared curiously at the device.

“Where did you get that from, Cervial? I’ve never seen a crossbow made like that.”

He beamed ear-to-ear as she inspected it.

“That’s because this one is made by Dwarves. Custom-ordered. Ever seen one this nice, Gerial? It’s like a bow, but one that you can load and wait until you need to shoot. This one’s a piece of art. Pure Dwarfsteel, straight from the forges of Deríthal-Vel.”

Gerial took the bow from Yvlon as Ceria rolled her eyes. The man exclaimed.

“Beautiful. Crossbow Stan’s got the best ones I’ve seen, and he’ll go green with jealousy when he sees yours. What’s the range compared to a bow…? We should have you and Marian compete for range and accuracy and power.”

Ceria wasn’t as impressed as the other two Humans, but listened readily enough as Cervial extolled the virtues of the device.

“It cost nearly every gold piece we had, but it was worth it. We cracked the armor of a Stone Golem with one shot, and we’ve brought down more shielded enemies than I can count with this.”

“And this is your trump card for the expedition?”

“We might be at a disadvantage if we run into tight corridors, but with this, we’ll be able to pull our weight.”

“Well, we’re all set here. We’ve got a battle plan worked out, and my team and The Horns of Hammerad are set. Menes says his folks have enough mana potions. The only group not accounted for is Gregor’s. Where is he?”

Cervial grinned.

“Gregor is busy going through the last adventurers clamoring to join the expedition. He says he’ll probably turn them all down, but you never know who’ll turn up.”

Gerial reluctantly handed the crossbow back to Cervial. He could easily imagine the Horns of Hammerad with every member holding one of the deadly weapons. Well—everyone except Calruz and Ceria.

“Did we find anyone useful?”

“Some.”

Yvlon shrugged and counted off on her gauntleted fingers.

“A few [Mages], a Silver-rank with sword and shield…not too many, but better than nothing. I asked the mage you told me about, Gerial, but he turned me down.”

Ceria glared at Gerial while he studiously looked the other way.

“It was, ah, just a thought. We could use all the help we can get.”

Cervial shrugged. He carefully began unstringing the black crossbow.

“No use fretting about one or two swords now. We’re five adventuring teams. Counting the extras, we’re over forty people strong, and all of us are Silver-rank. If there’s a Gold-rank team better than this, I’d love to see it.”

Gerial nodded. He glanced covetously at the crossbow as Cervial went to store it in a case and then looked up. Both Yvlon and Ceria glanced up as well.

They were in the Adventurer’s Guild, sitting by themselves at a table. But someone had walked over. A Drake. He seemed…young, at least as far as they could tell. His scales were a lighter shade of blue than most, and he was smiling. At least, it looked like a smile. Just one with a lot of teeth.

“Um. Excuse me? I heard you were the team going into the ruins. Would you mind if I joined your group?”

The adventurers shared a glance. Yvlon cleared her throat and smiled at the Drake.

“I’m sorry, but we have enough fighters, and this is a dangerous expedition we’re embarking on. We can’t take rookies or people who aren’t adventurers.”

The Drake looked surprised.

“How do you know I’m not an adventurer?”

“You don’t have any weapons or armor, and you act like a civilian.”

“Oh.”

The Drake nodded.

“But I still think you might be willing to take me. I have valuable skills I could contribute, and I—I’d like to improve myself.”

“Oh? And what class are you, then? And I don’t believe I caught your name.”

Flustered, the Drake bowed his head slightly.

“Forgive me, I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Olesm. I’m a [Tactician]. Level 24.”



——



Ceria and Gerial returned to the inn and paused. Instead of dinner, they saw an unusual sight. All of the Horns of Hammerad were sitting in the grass, watching as Calruz chased Erin around. He was punching and kicking at her—not as hard or quickly as they knew he could, but with enough force that Erin was screaming and running around, dodging frantically.

“Aaaah! Help!”

Erin ducked and scuttled away as Calruz swung one massive fist towards her head. He scowled at her.

“Stop running! Don’t—don’t crouch like that. If you must retreat, do it quickly and without wasting motion. Never turn your back to the enemy!”

“Calruz! What are you doing?”

Ceria ran forwards. Erin dove and hid behind her. The half-Elf barred Calruz’s way as the Minotaur tried to follow Erin.

“Move aside, Ceria. I am teaching her to fight.”

“By bullying her?”

“She must learn to fight an enemy stronger and larger than she is.”

“Yeah, but there are limits. I wouldn’t ever get in a fight with a Minotaur. If I’m ever without mana or any potions, I’ll just run for it.”

“Exactly!”

Erin tried to keep Ceria between her and Calruz as she glared at the Minotaur.

“I’m hungry! And tired! I’ve been doing stupid spars all day! I haven’t even had lunch!”

“Is this true?”

Calruz didn’t appear fazed by either female’s disapproval. He snorted and didn’t respond. Ceria crossed her arms.

“I’m sure Erin was grateful to learn from you, but if she doesn’t want to learn any more, you have to respect that.”

Calruz waved one hand dismissively.

“Running away will not solve anything. She must hone her instincts. I will let her rest after she lands a proper hit on me. Now move—”

He pushed Ceria aside. The half-Elf growled, but Erin dashed forwards.

“Take this!”

Erin kicked upwards. Instantly, Calruz’s legs tried to lock together, but it was too late. Gerial, Sostrom, and every other male in the Horns of Hammerad winced as Calruz bellowed in agony.

Fleeing backwards again, Erin stopped ten feet away and stared at Calruz.

“How’s that, you jerk? Happy?”

Ceria started laughing as Calruz swore in his own language, uttering several guttural sounds as he straightened. He covered his private…part with one hand as he glared at Erin.

“That—was a dishonorable blow.”

“But it was what you wanted. Keep chasing me and I’ll—I’ll do it again!”

He glared, but Erin could glare with the best, and she was tired and upset. At last, he blew out air through his nostrils, veins throbbing on his forehead.

“Go. Rest.”

Before he could change his mind, Erin fled. Ceria was still laughing.

Calruz turned to Toren and pointed.

“I will teach you. If you are to protect her, you must fight better. Come. Strike at me.”

The skeleton rushed at Calruz without needing further prompting. The Horns of Hammerad began taking bets on whether he’d hit Calruz.

Toren feinted at Calruz and then tried to copy the move Erin had used. His foot came up. Calruz caught his leg and narrowed his eyes at the skeleton.

Erin had just poured herself a cup of water and come back outside in time to see Calruz hurl Toren’s head off the hill. She cleared her throat, and the Horns of Hammerad looked around.

“If you’re done beating up my skeleton, does anyone want something to eat?”



——



“That was hilarious.”

“It was underhanded.”

“I’ve never seen anything funnier.”

Ceria was still chuckling as she sat with Calruz in the inn, eating pasta. It was Erin’s go-to option when she was pressed for time or tired. Boil water, insert pasta, chop up onions, add some butter and other ancillary parts and you’re done. Nothing simpler.

Calruz was still glaring at his plate, but he’d mostly recovered from Erin’s literal low blow. He shook his head as the half-Elf kept poking fun at him.

“At least she was able to strike at me, even by surprise. That is good.”

Ceria stopped laughing and grew serious for a moment.

“But really, Calruz, why were you so intent on teaching her? I thought you were going to just show her how to punch properly, not try and turn her into an adventurer overnight.”

The Minotaur grunted and forked a huge mess of noodles and sauce into his mouth.

“I was. But she showed me that she had more potential than that.”

“Oh?”

He grunted.

“She is—talented. Very talented. Ceria. In the course of a few hours, she was able to overwhelm that skeleton in a fist fight. And then she unlocked a Skill. She learned one in the heat of training.”

Ceria had been drinking blue juice. She choked on her drink, and Calruz had to tap her on the back before she got her breath back.

“You’re joking.”

“No.”

“That’s impossible.”

“It is rare, but I have heard of it being done. Never seen it on one’s first day of training. Erin Solstice has a sense for battle. I have met others like her. She is gifted. Talented. It is a shame she never trained before this.”

“Stop. My ears are burning.”

Erin smiled at Calruz as she brought another plate of steaming sausages out for the two at their table. The Minotaur and Ceria both made sounds of appreciation, but he stopped Erin as she was about to go back into the kitchen.

“You have potential. But if you are attacked now, what I have taught you will not suffice. You must practice. Train. Remember that for now you are still weak.”

“Oh, I know. I’m not going to do anything stupid, even if I do learn to fight, though. Anyways, if I ever do get attacked, I’ll just toss a jar of acid at them.”

Ceria paused as she reached for the largest sausage on the plate.

“What?”

Erin carefully brought out one of the small jars she’d made for the Goblins and showed it to Calruz and Ceria, explaining where she got it from. In the meantime, Ceria scooted her chair as far away from the glowing green liquid as she could.

“Do you—do you have no sense of danger? Why are you so casual with that stuff? What if you dropped it?”

“Hey, I’m not the one handling it! Toren doesn’t have any fleshy bits to melt, and it’s useful.”

Ceria shook her head.

“You Human—no, you’re crazy. Pardon me, Erin, but you are.”

Gerial leaned across the table and studied the jar of acid. He looked up at Erin.

“May I buy one?”

“You? Are you insane, Gerial?”

“It may come in useful, Ceria. Besides, it shouldn’t break if I put it in my pack.”

“It’s your funeral. Just don’t walk near me while we’re fighting.”

Erin nodded happily and took the silver coins from Gerial.

“I’ve got lots more if you want some.”

Gerial hesitated. He eyed the jar of acid and shook his head.

“One is fine. It may be quite useful, but I’ll trust to my usual preparations rather than rely on it.”

“Speaking of which…”

Ceria cleared her throat and nodded to the other Horns of Hammerad. They gathered around, and the half-Elf pointed to a big pack she and Gerial had carried from the city.

“It’s time. Yvlon bought supplies, but I’ll hand them out now so you can put them in your packs. We’ve got rations and water and four healing potions and four mana potions each. Torches and flint—all the basic supplies, but we’ll have a few carts we’ll take in with us.”

Erin was curious.

“Only four healing potions? Wouldn’t it be better to, I dunno, take a lot? That way you can just heal up again and again, right?”

The adventurers laughed, but not condescendingly. Ceria shook her head and smiled as she explained.

“There’s a limit to how much we can heal. After so many potions the body just—quits. And besides, if we’re taking enough injuries to need more than a few healing potions, we’re already in trouble.”

Gerial nodded as he handed out bulky packages of dried rations and water flasks around.

“The longest battle we’ve had was against an undead Lich a while back. We ran out of potions, and half of our group could barely move from healing up. We can’t rely on magic for everything.”

“Just everything important.”

Ceria muttered under her breath and smiled at Gerial when he glared at her. Calruz cleared his throat, and all the people in the room quieted.

“I am not one for speeches. But tomorrow we go into new ruins, and we may find treasure beyond our dreams there or the greatest of enemies. Regardless, we go together. The Horns of Hammerad shall return triumphant.”

He raised his mug.

“To honor and glory.”

“To honor.”

The Horns of Hammerad clinked glasses. Erin watched, silently, as they drained their mugs in a single go. She was impressed. Even Ceria managed to do it. You wouldn’t expect such a petite form to be able to hold so much liquor—especially when she repeated the trick.

“Can you really handle drinking so much?”

Ceria grinned and shrugged.

“This isn’t that strong. And besides, we’re heading in later in the morning. If I get really drunk, I’ll get someone to heal me. Or drink a mana potion.”

Erin looked confused. Ceria explained.

“Mana potions and alcohol don’t mix well. I drink it, everything comes back up. It’s messy, but effective.”

Somehow, the idea of a graceful half-Elf puking like a college student after a night of hard drinking offended Erin more than anything else.

“Just so long as you don’t forget and drink the acid.”

Ceria shuddered, and Gerial shook his head.

“No worries. I’ve got that securely put away.”

They went to bed early. That surprised Erin. She wouldn’t have been able to sleep a wink, but maybe it was the alcohol that did it.

The Horns of Hammerad trooped upstairs. Erin remained in the common room. She wasn’t tired yet. Well, she was, but there was still some part of her that was awake.

She sat in the empty room, watching Toren move around collecting mugs and sweeping up dust. Vaguely, Erin rubbed at the knuckles of her right hand. It still hurt.

She stared at her hand. It was just a hand. She’d moved chess pieces with it for so long her fingers were callused. But now she stared at her knuckles. She’d never hit anything before in her life. But today she’d won a fight.

Erin closed her fingers into a fist and then sighed. She shook her head.

“…What a crappy thing to be good at.”



[Skill – Power Strike learned!]





1.57 H


On the day of the expedition, all the members of the Horns of Hammerad woke and trooped downstairs to breakfast in silence. Erin, the cheerful [Innkeeper], had provided breakfast—eggs and bacon.

It was the second day in a row she’d provided the same kind of breakfast—but most of them didn’t care. It was nice, hot food, and the [Innkeeper] had put more time and coin into the food than another inn, which might serve you cheap porridge instead.

Ceria sat at one of the tables, blinking and poking at the wobbling, yellow yolk of one of her poached eggs. She was still sleepy, but the blue juice woke her up in a pleasant way.

She looked up from her food and glanced around the room. Good. Everyone was present. All ten members of the Horns of Hammerad were sitting, eating or talking quietly. Calruz and Gerial sat together, discussing the plan, no doubt. Sostrom and another member of the party, Marian, sat at the same table, talking, while the five warriors sat at another table and ate silently.

Aside from those two and Hunt, Ceria didn’t know the rest of her team intimately. They were colleagues and friends, of course, but she’d only fought with them for less than a year—in the case of their most junior members, only a month. Big teams rotated adventurers in and out. Gerial was a heart of the team, like Calruz, but some might not last.

Sostrom laughed at something Marian had said. He liked her. She was the only person who didn’t make fun of his bald spot on occasion. Ceria still hadn’t figured out if he and Marian were sleeping together.

If they were, she hoped Marian wouldn’t break his heart when she left. Sostrom was a good mage, a solid Level 16 [Elementalist]—ordinary in both class choice and spell selection. Marian was a low-level [Ranger], but she pulled her weight.

It was just—

She wasn’t a true adventurer, a true member of the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria still respected her, but Marian only wanted to earn enough money to start a store or an inn herself. Adventuring was a job for her.

It was a job for Ceria, of course, but it was also her life. She lived to adventure. By earning gold, she could master new spells, and with the rare magical items she looted, she could continue to improve herself as a mage and level. She wouldn’t stop adventuring even if she found a thousand gold pieces lying around. She’d just buy a new spell book or a wand and continue on.

Ceria was a lifer, although she didn’t know that term. She, Gerial, Calruz, Sostrom, and Hunt were all adventurers who would never quit. Even before they’d joined together to form the Horns of Hammerad two years ago, each one of them had spent years working their way up the ranks to get where they were.

Someday, Marian would quit. And they would find someone else to fill her place. Perhaps right after the expedition. If she didn’t die.

That was a dark thought, and not one she should be having. Ceria shook her head and concentrated on her meal. She broke the yolk on her egg and watched it soak into the slice of toasted bread. How delicious.

She loved eggs. She loved climbing into trees and stealing them out of nests. Humans tended to disapprove of that in general, but Ceria had grown up part of her life foraging off the land. She wasn’t picky about where her food came from.

She’d eaten earthworms, beetles, bark off of trees—which wasn’t good for your bowels or health—birds both raw and cooked, and occasionally, mushrooms and roots and such. She’d come close to starvation so many times she had developed an appetite for unusual things. Like bugs, although Ceria didn’t like having to pick them out of her teeth afterwards. But they were fun to eat.

Mm. She wondered what those Acid Flies Erin sold tasted like…



——



“Mm. We’re all set. Time to head out?”

Gerial took a drink of the sweet blue juice before replying to Calruz.

“We’ve got an hour yet. Plenty of time. Let’s not rush things.”

The Minotaur nodded silently and gestured at Toren for another plate of bacon. Gerial wondered how he could eat so much. His stomach wasn’t letting him eat more than a bit of breakfast. He was so energized with nerves as much as anticipation he felt like getting up to pace around.

But, of course, he couldn’t. The vice-Captain of the Horns of Hammerad had to project calm, and that was what Gerial was going to do. He took his job seriously. He had to be a leader like Calruz.

And Ceria, for that matter. Gerial spotted her sitting at her table, looking pensively down into her plate of food. She didn’t seem the slightest bit nervous. He envied her that.

The half-Elf’s gaze had turned far-off, and her expression had become distant. Gerial was familiar with that look. Another thing to envy.

He felt he would never understand the true complexities and unearthly thoughts that surely ran through her mind. She might appear Human in many ways, but Ceria was half Elf. Half of her was descended from legends, and who knew what deep thoughts she pondered at times like these?

“Hey there!”

Gerial jumped and quickly looked away from Ceria. He smiled up at Erin and smoothed his mustache. Now here was someone he could understand. Erin Solstice was as likable and approachable as any innkeeper he had ever met. He would be sorry to say goodbye.

“Ah. Miss Erin. I hope you are recovering from your cold? We were intending to leave payment and go without bothering you, but you were up before we were.”

Erin looked startled.

“What? Oh, no, I couldn’t do that. I’m feeling a lot better. And you guys paid me so well—a big breakfast is the least I could do. You’re, uh, heading into the ruins today, aren’t you?”

Calruz grunted, and Gerial nodded.

“Indeed we are. We and four other adventuring teams are going in.”

“Wasn’t it six teams total?”

Gerial winced and glanced at Calruz surreptitiously.

“The last adventuring Captain, ah, pulled out at the last moment.”

“Hendric. Coward.”

Calruz rumbled darkly. Gerial hoped he wouldn’t start shouting. That would be the last thing they needed right before the expedition.

To his relief, Erin didn’t seem off-put by the Minotaur’s ire. She poked Calruz in the side, causing the Minotaur to glare at her while Gerial choked on his food.

“Cheer up, grumpy. I’m sure you’ll be fine.”

She glanced at Gerial.

“So—should I expect you guys to come back tomorrow? Or tonight…? How long is this, uh, dungeon exploration going to take?”

“We’re not sure. I wouldn’t count on our return, but it could happen.”

Gerial shrugged uncomfortably, not liking the uncertainty in his own voice.

“We have enough supplies for at least four days. I doubt we’ll be down there that long unless we need to do excavation, though.”

Across the room, Hunt looked up from his meal. He had egg in his beard, which Gerial didn’t comment on.

“Those ruins could be deep, though. No telling how far down they go.”

“We’re not clearing out every room. As soon as we strike a treasury or find enough to justify the costs, we’ll leave.”

“Hah! Tell that to the other teams. Gregor is saying his team won’t quit until they reach the bottom floor. A big change from what he was saying earlier.”

“Well, if we’re going in, we might as well go all in.”

“Speaking of which…Gerial, is it time?”

Ceria glanced meaningfully at the sky through a window. Gerial nodded.

“I suppose we should be going. The meeting is about an hour’s time away, and we don’t want to be late. Is everyone finished?”

They were. Or they were once he spoke. The strange skeleton walked around the room collecting dishes while Erin saw the Horns of Hammerad off.

“Good luck. Don’t get, uh, killed by a Dragon or anything.”

Gerial and the others had to laugh at that.

“There are no Dragons on this side of the world, miss. Probably anywhere.”

“Um. There are. I’ve seen one.”

Their laughter stopped abruptly. Gerial stared into Erin’s honest expression. He opened his mouth to say something—

“Hello? Hello! I’m sorry I’m late!”

A figure dashed up the hill. The pale-blue Drake wearing leather armor was desperately trying to buckle his sheathed sword to his belt as he stopped before the Horns of Hammerad.

“I’m not late, am I? I forgot we were supposed to meet here.”

“Olesm?”

Erin stared incredulously at the Drake.

“What are you—you’re going on the expedition too? But you’re not an adventurer!”

Olesm, the [Tactician] they’d hired on yesterday, widened his eyes, and his tail began twitching as he noticed Erin.

“Oh, Erin. I didn’t—well of course you’d be here. This is your inn—yes, I am going on the expedition! I’m hoping to raise my level. I was so inspired by you that I decided it was time to break out of my shell, so to speak.”

“But can you defend yourself? I mean, I don’t want to be rude but…”

The way Erin looked at Olesm spoke very plainly of her opinion of his fighting prowess. The Drake blushed, but stuck out his chest.

“I may not be a good fighter, but my Skills should help quite a bit. Believe me, I will come back better than ever. And perhaps then I’ll win a game against you.”

“But it’s chess. That’s not the same as—as fighting. And wait a second, Selys said you work for the city. Aren’t you supposed to, like, be there?”

Erin waved at Liscor in the distance. Olesm avoided everyone’s gaze and coughed into one first.

“Technically, yes. But they won’t miss me for a few days. The Watch is supposed to work with me, and I advise the Council, but they meet once a month if that. They don’t need me here. The army has a dozen people who could take my post over in a second. And besides. I’ve stayed the same level for far too long, hiding in the city rather than joining the army or adventuring myself. Today, I’m going to change that.”

“Enough talk.”

Calruz growled, making Olesm jump and stammer. He pointed.

“We have to go. Follow us, but don’t lag behind.”

“Oh, of course. My apologies.”

Olesm sidled behind the Minotaur and smiled toothily at Gerial. The man tried to smile back, unsure of whether he should bare his own teeth.

Erin was talking to Ceria while she tried to offer the Horns of Hammerad a basket of food to take with them.

“I’ll be happy to serve you if you guys come back tonight, no matter how late. Just knock, okay? I’ve got guests coming anyways.”

“Oh? Who?”

“We’re going.”

Calruz poked Ceria in the back, making her stumble. She turned and kicked at the Minotaur, but it was time to go. Gerial bade farewell to Erin as the Horns of Hammerad descended the hill.

They saw Erin’s guests about fifteen minutes after they’d begun walking. Five Antinium were making their way from the city. Two of them were carrying one Gerial recognized. His stomach still clenched to see Pawn’s mangled limbs, but the Antinium greeted them without any inflection of pain in his voice.

“Greetings, adventurers. Olesm.”

“Oh? Pawn! Are you going to play chess at Miss Erin’s?”

Olesm greeted the Antinium cheerfully as the other adventurers mumbled awkward greetings. Pawn nodded at him.

“Yes. We do not have any duties, so we go to play.”

“Oh? I thought you always worked in the morning. Is something wrong?”

“Nothing is wrong. We have no tasks because we are waiting.”

“Waiting? Waiting for what?”

Calruz growled and started walking again. Olesm followed, but Pawn and the other Antinium simply followed their group, continuing the conversation.

“We wait for the Queen.”

“The Queen? Is she…is she doing something?”

“Yes. She is close to completing her task.”

“I heard about that. She didn’t talk to anyone and sent that new Prognugator out. Ksmvr, right? What was she doing that was so important.”

“We do not know. But it will be tomorrow.”

Olesm stared at Pawn. Gerial saw Ceria glance swiftly backwards at the Antinium.

“What will be tomorrow?”

“It will be. Good luck on your mission, Olesm.”

“Oh, um, bye—”

The Antinium left. Calruz growled and stomped onwards, muttering about delays while Gerial pondered the conversation. What did it mean? Did it even matter? The Antinium were strange. Gerial had learned long ago how dangerous they could be and how strange they were. But Pawn didn’t seem evil. Odd, perhaps, but—

Whatever thoughts he had, they were put out of Gerial’s mind when he saw the ruins in the distance. Even from miles away, the dark, grey and black stone of the huge structure stood out against the hill it had been excavated from.

It seemed as if it were some kind of ancient barrow, the grass shining orange and green near the top of the spot where the dirt ended in a kind of cliff and the stone began. The stone was embedded in the dirt, a gaping awning, an oddity in the natural landscape of this place.

The stone looked so old that it was impossible to date, but people had claimed it was probably enchanted—unable to be removed or broken. Yet time had worked cracks and mossy intrusion into even what had once been solid stone. So it truly did look abandoned to time.

The Horns of Hammerad paused. Suddenly this morning, their small concerns and, indeed, everything else in the world had ceased for them. They had been waiting patiently these last few days. They had enjoyed themselves, gotten into small trouble or out of it, but what they had really been doing behind it all was waiting.

Waiting for this. The ruins loomed, massive, unexplored. It called to them. They were adventurers.

They resumed their march. Unconsciously, their pace increased. They felt it in their blood, in their bones, and the beating of their hearts.

Danger and glory, waiting for them in the darkness below.



——



The ruins had first been discovered a month ago by a [Shepherd] tending his flock. Drakes kept sheep and other animals just like Humans, and one of them had been walking over a hill when he’d tripped over a rock.

After he’d nearly broken his foot trying to kick the rock, the Drake had dug a bit of it up and realized the rock wasn’t so much a rock as part of a building half-uncovered by rains or chance erosion. And when he’d dug further with the help of his friends, they had discovered that the bit of the building was in fact an entire structure hidden in the earth.

And after the Antinium had been called and days of excavations had gone by, the city had found that the hill the building had been found on wasn’t so much a hill as the entire structure itself.

Today, the ruins sat half-uncovered against the large hill, black stone entrance gaping open in the light of the sun. Ceria, Gerial, and the other Horns of Hammerad stared up at it.

A wall of black rock. A carved stone doorway and, in places, open windows that allowed some ventilation into the massive structure.

From up close, the massive stone doors were even more imposing. Although some of the dirt that had once covered the structure had been excavated, it was clear that this—building was huge on a completely different scale than the structures in Liscor.

The roof had not been excavated, and nor had the lower half of the structure. Apparently, an Antinium had dug down but had gone over a hundred feet without reaching the bottom of this massive structure. The city had decided to only dig up what was necessary, so the doorway had been uncovered and the rest of the building left alone.

That made the sight of the black entrance poking out of the hillside covered in grass and flowers all the more odd. And disturbing. The massive doors could easily hold two creatures twice Calruz’s height, and you could push two wagons through at the same time. It dwarfed even the large group of adventurers standing in front of the entrance.

Perhaps there had once been a fresco or decorative front of some kind, but age had worn away any details. And besides, there was really only one message the giant stone doors told. No one was meant to easily enter this place—or exit.

“Dead gods, I saw it from far away, but up close, this is something else entirely.”

Gerial shook his head as he and Ceria stood looking up at the ruins. She nodded.

“The Ruins of Albez seem tiny compared to this one. Well, they’re more spread out, but still.”

“Look at that.”

Sostrom pointed to one side of the doors. Aside from the miniature village that had popped up around the ruins full of enterprising shopkeepers, adventurers, and curious watchers, another group had already occupied this space.

Around fifteen armed warriors, mainly Drakes and a few Gnolls—sat together around an open fire, talking and eating while two of them stood watch at the doors.

Hunt growled under his breath and gripped the mace at his side as he eyed the other group.

“More adventurers? I thought we were the only ones entering. If they’re trying to steal a march on us—”

Olesm shook his head before anyone else could.

“They’re not adventurers. That’s the local Watch.”

“The Watch? Why are they out here?”

Ceria nodded to the group of [Guards] and then pointed to another group of warriors sitting across from them. They had no fire, but they were watching the doors as well.

“There are several Bronze-rank adventuring teams on permanent guard duty as well as several members of the Watch. Seems like this place disgorges monsters every few days. Nothing more dangerous than a mob of zombies or the local wildlife, but they’re being cautious.”

Hunt relaxed, and the other Horns of Hammerad nodded. They weren’t used to a city militia taking such an active role, but none of them were strangers to the idea of guarding a dungeon.

“Good thing we’re going in today. Otherwise, the city’d probably put up a request to clear out this place in a month or two.”

“It still might come to that. Unless they destroy this damn place, something’s going to make its nest here.”

“True.”

Gerial nodded in agreement as he studied the massive building. It was certainly inconvenient to have so close to the city. It would surely attract monsters and, worse, provide a lair for them to reproduce.

It wasn’t as if monsters popped out of thin air. Except for the ones that did, of course. But caves, abandoned buildings, and magical sites tended to attract monsters like honey followed bees. Monsters would breed in the darkness or reanimate in the case of the dead. Sometimes, they fought each other, but often, they lived in disturbing harmony—until the unlucky adventurer intruded on their lair.

“There’s Yvlon. Move up.”

Calruz finally spotted the person he was looking for. He began walking towards Yvlon and her group of female adventurers wearing polished, silver metal. Gerial picked up his pace, so he arrived just as his Captain did. Calruz had no time for minor details like that, but proper courtesy was important. It was one of Gerial’s few complaints that the Minotaur so often forgot that.

But Yvlon was not the kind of petty person to be bothered by such things in the first place. She smiled at Gerial and Calruz as they approached, and his heart skipped a beat. She was truly beautiful. Almost as beautiful as Ryoka, but different, of course…

“Calruz. Gerial. I’m glad your team is here on time. Everyone else has already assembled. Shall we begin?”

“Why waste time waiting?”

Yvlon nodded. She stepped back and let Calruz precede her. Gerial called to the Horns of Hammerad, and they joined the group of adventurers waiting outside the doors.

Ceria walked with the Horns of Hammerad, merging with the main body of adventurers as she stared up at the dark doors. It was hard—even for someone who had lived as long as she had—to stand still in this crowd. And indeed, the other adventurers around her were constantly shifting, moving around with the same energy she felt.

There were so many! It was a crowd of adventurers like a full day at the Adventurer’s Guild, but in this case, every single one of them was Silver-rank. They let the Horns of Hammerad move next to them, calling out good naturedly and exchanging slaps on the back in the case of the warriors, polite nods and only the occasional spine-shattering slap in the case of the mages.

At the head of the crowd, Yvlon and Calruz joined three other Captains. Gregor, Menes, and Cervial nodded at the Minotaur and female adventurer as the crowd grew silent.

The blonde adventurer raised her hands for silence, but it was already present. The adventurers—and come to that, the large crowd of onlookers—waited in breathless expectation.

“Captains, I am pleased to see you all here. May I inquire if you are all ready?”

They nodded. Calruz was the first to speak. The Minotaur’s rumbling voice was loud enough to be heard quite audibly even from the back of the crowd.

“The Horns of Hammerad are all here.”

“The Flawless Flights are ready to go.”

“Kyrial’s Vanguard are armed and ready to fight!”

“We of the Circle of Reneë have prepared our spells.”

“And the Silver Spears are assembled.”

Yvlon nodded to the other adventuring Captains and raised her voice to address the crowd.

“I’m pleased to see everyone is present. But I expected nothing less of the best adventurers on this side of the continent! We are here today to make history by entering the Ruins of Liscor. We don’t know exactly what is down there, but we do know something dangerous lurks below. And where there is danger, there is treasure and fame to be found.”

The adventurers shifted at that. Yvlon was speaking their language, and her gaze was open and honest. She didn’t lie about the danger, and that they appreciated.

“Some of us may perish on this expedition. Five Families willing, it will be few or none. But I swear that each of you will receive a portion of the reward, and your families and loved ones will not be left penniless should you fall. That is the pledge I make towards each of my Silver Spears, and I offer the same to you today.”

She shook her head, and her golden blonde hair shook in the air, catching the light. Ceria smiled at that; Yvlon had to know exactly what she was doing and how her armor and hair shone.

“But enough dire thoughts. We are about to head in. Steel yourselves. Trust in each other. We know what must be done. Calruz, your Horns of Hammerad and Gregor, your Kyrial’s Vanguard have been chosen to lead the expedition. Would you do the honors?”

Calruz and Gregor nodded. They stepped towards the doorway and gestured.

“Kyrial’s Vanguard—form up!”

“To me, Horns of Hammerad.”

That was their signal. Ceria walked out of the crowd, ignoring the gazes of the other adventurers. Some of their group weren’t so graceful and stumbled or blushed, but they formed up behind Calruz as the Minotaur stood next to Gregor.

The massive, armored man who carried a battleaxe almost as large as Calruz’s scowled when he saw Olesm tagging along with the other adventurers.

“Who’s the Drake? I thought we agreed not to hire anyone else, Yvlon.”

Olesm jumped, and his scales faded in color, but Yvlon shook her head.

“He’s a [Tactician], not a [Warrior], Gregor. A Level 24. He came to us yesterday. I thought you’d agree we could definitely use him.”

Gregor scowled, but Yvlon was right. He nodded grudgingly.

“Hmph. Very well. Just so long as he doesn’t start giving orders to the rest of us.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t do that. I’m just here to help.”

“Fine.”

“Are you done?”

Calruz growled at Gregor. He was breathing harder, and his gaze was narrowed as he stared into the darkness of the ruins. Gregor opened his mouth to snap something back, then paused.

“I’m done. Shall we?”

“Yes. Let us begin.”

The two Silver-rank Captains shared a glance. Then, as one, they unholstered their battleaxes. It was pure showmanship—none of the adventurers expected to be attacked the instant they entered, but the crowd loved it.

The Bronze-Rank Adventurers and civilians cheered as Calruz and Gregor advanced into the ruins, weapons at the ready. Their vice-Captains, Gerial and a big man named Ulgrim, followed. Ceria was right behind Gerial as they stepped into the darkness. She held her glowing wand at the ready as the adventurers around her ignited torches or cast [Light] spells.

The darkness enveloped the adventurers even as Yvlon and the other two Captains began following their teams in. Ceria felt the air change, grow dead and stale, as the darkness closed around them. The grass and dirt became carved stone, and their footfalls echoed in the silence.

The adventurers readied themselves for anything. They could sense it. They had broken the sanctity of this dark place, and they would not leave until they had uncovered its every secret.

It had begun.



——



“You know, I would have expected something to happen by now.”

“Oh really? You haven’t explored many dungeons, then.”

Even in the flickering light of their torch, Ceria could see Olesm blush.

“This is my first one, actually.”

“Oh? Don’t freeze up and you’ll be fine. Besides, once this is done, you can tell all your friends about it. I’m sure Erin would be very impressed. Everyone loves experienced…adventurers. Especially ones who have big…swords. And explored a lot of dungeons, of course.”

It was quite entertaining to Ceria, seeing how red she could make Olesm’s scales. The Drake cleared his throat and quickly cast around for something else to say.

“These rooms—are quite odd, aren’t they?”

Ceria nodded. It was fifteen minutes into their expedition, but so far, the adventurers had seen very little. They’d passed through a long entrance hall of some kind into large, open rooms with little ornamentation and a lot of dust. Their group had split up—scouts from Cervial’s team going ahead while the main force went through the various rooms, but they’d found little.

“Broken chairs, metal—I can’t tell. It’s been too long, and everything is dust now. This was once some kind of sanctuary, perhaps? A massive one.”

“It’s big. But I could see that. Strange, though—all these rooms must be living quarters, kitchens, storage rooms, and so on. This is practically a city within this one building. How come no one knew of this before?”

“It must be ancient. Far older than Liscor. I can’t imagine how they built all of this—and out of stone! They must have had hundreds, thousands of workers or some kind of powerful magic.”

Ceria nodded as she stepped around a collapsed table that might have once served twenty guests at a time.

“Another time. Another world. They knew how to build such things back then. Is this one of the Walled Cities, perhaps, only forgotten by time? Or something like Liscor?”

“The design of the gates certainly suggests that. Of course, you need a roof or some good magic when the rainy season comes. I suppose it could have been built by my people.”

Olesm looked around and shuddered. Ceria knew how he felt. She wasn’t comfortable with the dark, echoing rooms any more than he was. For all they were spacious, she felt like she was cramped, confined. She could handle it, but Olesm was nervous and chatty, and she didn’t mind talking to him.

It wasn’t as if the other adventurers weren’t talking. The scouts and leading adventurers were silent as they walked up ahead, but the main group of adventurers kept quiet conversations going, joking, talking idly, anything to keep the tension at bay.

“So—I’m with your group. The, ah, Horns of Hammerad? I’m afraid I don’t know much about it. Liscor didn’t get many high-profile adventurers before this.”

Ceria raised her eyebrows.

“High profile? Hear that, Gerial? I wish we were that famous.”

Gerial looked back and smiled wryly at Ceria. Olesm was confused.

“But you’re Silver-rank adventurers. I just assumed—”

“Ceria is just teasing you Mister, ah, Olesm. We are quite well known locally. It’s just that we’re hardly the only Silver-rank teams in the north. And if you count the coastal cities—well, there are a number of Gold-rank teams and adventurers up there, and we can hardly compare.”

“Well, you seem quite competent to me. What does your group do? Aside from exploring ruins, that is.”

Gerial smiled.

“We specialize in monster slaying. If a troublesome group of monsters is infesting a region, we’re usually one of the first groups who answer the call. The Horns of Hammerad are a close-combat group. We close in and smash the enemy while our mages provide backup. Gregor’s Pride is the same.”

“Oh, I see, I see. And the Silver Spears?”

“Good at defense, coordination, strategy; a solid team. The Flawless Flights on the other hand do a lot of scouting work and hunting troublesome monsters that hide.”

“And the—the Circle? They were all [Mages]. Is that usual?”

Ceria shrugged.

“Not usual, but not unusual either. They take on almost all requests. They’ve got a bad reputation, though.”

“Why is that?”

Ceria grinned.

“Because they run away quite often.”

A [Mage] from further up ahead had heard that. He turned and flicked up a middle finger at Ceria, and she grinned and waved at him in apology. Mollified, the mage went back to his conversation.

Lowering her voice so she wouldn’t be heard, Ceria murmured to Olesm.

“If they’re out of mana, there’s not much they can do. So yes, often Menes’ team will abandon a mission if something makes them use up all their potions or if the enemy is more numerous or stronger than they anticipated.”

“Oh. I see.”

“They do good work most of the time, though.”

Gerial nodded in agreement.

“But they do have their own style. They prioritize all contracts with anything magic related. It’s their specialty, just like how Cervial has a lot of archers in his group and Yvlon’s team wears silver armor.”

“Do the Horns of Hammerad have a, um, noticeable feature?”

“…Not so much a feature as a code. We don’t break our promises. We don’t retreat, and if we have to abandon a job, we repay all we took in advance.”

Gerial murmured into his mustache.

“‘Death before dishonor.’”

“Really?”

“It’s what we live by. Our leader is Calruz. And you know what Minotaurs are like.”

“Oh. Of course.”

Olesm was silent for a while longer as the adventurers trooped onwards. They reached some kind of audience chamber with a large altar at the front. Ceria pointed while the Captains called for a short break.

“Look at that. You can tell this place is old because of the architecture. I’ve never seen any designs like it. It must be a previous era’s style.”

Yvlon nodded.

“True. What do you make of it, Olesm? Was this place built by your people?”

He could only shrug helplessly.

“It certainly seems like it. How else would you explain it being so close to Liscor?”

“And if it was, would they have much treasure?”

Every adventurer in earshot stared expectantly at Olesm. He thought about it and nodded.

“Oh, most definitely. We love collecting things. We are descended from Dragons after all. If this place was at all important, I’d expect some sort of vault.”

That made the other adventurers perk up, including Gerial and Ceria. It was always welcome to know their efforts might not be in vain.

They were about to keep moving when a loud voice cut through the hushed conversations.

“Contact.”

The word made every adventurers’ head snap up. They scanned for any sign of movement, but the person who had spoken was passing a message from further ahead.

“One of our scouts found a nest of Shield Spiders. The damn things must be infesting this place already.”

Several adventurers swore, but Gregor hushed them with a slashing movement of one hand.

“Shut it. How big’s the nest?”

“Not big. Around eight adults and a few dozen of the bigger children that we could see. Perhaps there’s more in another room, but they’ve only webbed up one so far.”

Gregor looked at Olesm.

“You’re the local expert. Any advice?”

The Drake nodded.

“Shield Spiders are weak against fire. Two mages with armed warriors holding shields should be able to burn the nest if they know the [Fireball] spell or equivalents.”

Yvlon nodded.

“My team can do the fighting. Menes, if you want to send some of your mages…?”

“Done.”

The scout led a detachment of nine adventurers off as the others prepared to move. That was the benefit of such a large group. They could keep going even if they ran into smaller groups of monsters.

Their path took them onwards through rooms in a winding pattern. If the ruins had been fully excavated, they could have made much faster progress, but the diggers and adventurers who had come before them had dug randomly and created a maze within the maze. More than once, the expedition had to halt to dig out a collapsed tunnel again.

Cervial shook his head as they passed by a corridor blocked off by a wall of dirt.

“I don’t like these unexcavated areas. Something could tunnel their way around and ambush us.”

Yvlon paused and considered the situation. Menes tapped her on the shoulder and gestured to his wand.

“We don’t have time to block everything off. How about this? We’ll set wards that will go off if something crosses them.”

She looked at Calruz and Gregor. They nodded in agreement.

“That sounds good. Do it.”

They left a few mages and warriors to set wards while they moved on. After about thirty minutes, they’d reached a long, long corridor wide enough for eight people to walk across when they heard a shout.

This time, they saw a woman running back towards them. She was a [Thief], and her footfalls barely made any sound despite her rapid approach. She stopped and gasped out her message, panting as more scouts ran back towards them.

“Zombies. At least thirty of them up ahead. Probably more. They’re coming from below.”

This time, every adventurer drew their weapon. Olesm fumbled as he unsheathed his sword, and the Captains glanced at each other.

“My team will take the front—”

“Let my archers soften them up first. We can take down at least half in this open area. Save you the energy.”

“Good. Try not to use magic just yet if we can help it. Form up!”

Calruz turned and began ordering the Horns of Hammerad while the other Captains did the same. The adventurers somehow understood what they were meant to do and moved smoothly into position, but Olesm blinked around, confused.

“Over here.”

Ceria tugged him into line behind the warriors, who’d formed a wall of shields and weapons staggered so that they could fall back if need be. The mages waited in the back, ready to cast if need be while Cervial took his team to the front.

Eight adventurers, including him, set arrows to a collection of bows. Several longbows and shortbows, but the Dwarven crossbow and two slings as well. Cervial held the crossbow, sighting down it calmly as he knelt with one knee raised to steady the weapon.

He raised a hand. The adventurers, already silent, made no sound.

“I hear them.”

Ceria did too. And soon, every Human could hear the rapid, thudding footfalls echoing in the distance. They were faint, but growing louder.

Olesm was shaking with nervous energy. Ceria wanted to calm him down, but she was afraid touching him would make him shout. So she waited.

As the sounds grew louder, she also heard faint moaning and growling in the distance. The zombies were making noise. She saw Cervial’s eyes narrow, and he swung the crossbow up.

The bolt discharged with a loud thunk, and two of the adventurers with longbows shot as well. Ceria couldn’t even see that far into the darkness, but Cervial nodded.

“Got one.”

One of his team nodded, and the other shook his head.

“Hit one in the leg.”

“Chest shot. Didn’t even slow him.”

They reloaded as they spoke. In a few seconds, their bows flew up and they fired again. They did this twice more before the zombies came into view of the adventurers’ light.

Corpses ran at the adventurers. Corpses given life. They were not Human any longer. They couldn’t be, with parts of them rotted so that intestines and bone poked through their dead skin. They were also dark, some green with fungi and rot, but others blue or black in death, their skin leaking bits of their liquefied innards.

Olesm gulped as they came into view, but Cervial’s team didn’t hesitate. Every weapon moved up, and they began shooting, the slings whirling heavy stones into the eyes and faces of the zombies as the arrows cut down others.

A bolt from the black crossbow punched through the heads of two zombies, tripping up their companions as they ran at the adventurers.

Ten zombies fell. Then twelve. Sixteen. As they were twenty feet away, Cervial surged to his feet.

“Back!”

His team rushed back through the gaps in the line the warriors had left for them. Instantly, the adventurers in front closed ranks. The zombies ran at them, biting, mouths gaping obscenely wide as they lunged at the adventurers.

Calruz was up in front next to Gregor. Ceria saw him raise his axe, but not to swing as a zombie ran at him. He just leveled the axe at the zombie and extended his arm in a jab.

The sharp blades of the battleaxe slammed into the zombie’s chest, knocking it backwards. It fell back, and Calruz brought his axe down casually on its rib cage. Bone broke, and the zombie lay still.

The other adventurers met the undead charge in the same way. Shields rammed into the frail dead bodies, pushing them back while swords, axes, and maces clubbed them down, bashing in their skulls, severing their heads. It wasn’t even close to a fair fight. The adventurers worked in tandem, outnumbered the dead, and had Levels and Skills. The dead only had rotting bodies, and soon, not even that.

After the last crawling zombie had been dispatched, Yvlon looked around.

“Anyone hurt? Any injuries?”

There were none. She went to inspect the corpses along with Cervial and a few of their scouts.

“Hm. Look at this, Yvlon.”

Cervial showed her a few of the corpses. Yvlon saw ruined Human faces, their flesh reeking from their rapid decay. She coughed, and a mage murmured a spell.

“[Cleansing Wind].”

“Thank you. What am I supposed to see, Cervial?”

“This. They’re mostly Human, these zombies. And freshly dead. If they weren’t, we’d be fighting skeletons. Average zombies rot to bone in a year or less. Even sealed—they’d be all dried out, not actively rotting.”

“More of the adventurers who first came in?”

“Very likely. But see behind them—?”

The second group was odder than the first—they were both actively still in decomposition, but as she held her nose, she saw the ragged steel and leather they wore was almost as rusted and destroyed as their bodies.

“Drakes. Badly rotted, too. But why would their armor look that old…?”

The Captain of the Flawless Flights bit his lip.

“That sounds like a failing preservation spell to me. Something is keeping them from rotting. Zombies are a bit tougher than skeletons so someone wanted their flesh intact…but didn’t spell the gear. That’s why there’s a mismatch. How long does it take for good armor to get to that state? They must be ancient.”

“Or something is restoring their flesh. Wonderful. Do you think the main threat will be the undead, then?”

“They don’t play nice with other monsters. That would be my best bet.”

Cervial grinned, his teeth illuminated in the torchlight. Then his smile faded.

“Still, that was quite a group. Not exactly a small welcoming committee, was it?”

Yvlon shook her head.

“For our first real encounter in here? I’d say it was light enough.”

The other man nodded, but he still seemed troubled.

“Zombies can sense the living. It’s only natural they’d feel so many of us and come running.”

He paused.

“Still. That was a bit too convenient and quick for my liking. Normally, I’d expect them to be spread out as they sense us and follow each other, not rush all at once like that.”

The armored woman paused, thinking.

“Could be coincidence.”

“Perhaps not.”

She nodded to the scouts.

“Go wary.”

They nodded and disappeared up ahead, their lights rapidly fading in the blackness.

Ceria found Olesm was shaking, but not with fear after the short battle. He stared at the dead, gagging slightly until the magic wind took away the stench.

“That was so—so impressive! There were so many, but you took care of them like—like—”

The Drake tried to snap shaking fingers. Ceria smiled.

“I had nothing to do with it. Good old fashioned metal did the trick here. Which is a good thing. If we had to start casting over a few undead, we’d be in trouble.”

“Ceria!”

The half-Elf glanced up. Yvlon was waving her to the front next to the other Captains. She also gestured at Olesm.

Ceria approached, Olesm trailing behind her. Yvlon smiled at both.

“Not a bad start, is it? We work well together.”

“Still, that was a lot of undead. Should we expect more up ahead?”

“More than likely. We were debating using your [Illumination] spell now, Ceria. What do you think?”

Ceria hesitated.

“I can’t use the lights to illuminate where I haven’t been. I could use it to light the way back but—I think I should wait. It’s not like we’re so far in that it’s hard to find our way back, and when I do cast it, it should be at a place we mean to hold for a longer time.”

Yvlon nodded.

“When we make camp, then. We’ll find a spot. But we’re hours from needing rest, so we’ll hold off.”

“Are we moving forwards now?”

“Almost. The scouts are saying this corridor begins to slope downwards. This is the place that leads to the second floor.”

“That’s where all the other teams disappeared.”

“Exactly. We’re going in ready for anything.”

Gregor and Calruz were indeed bringing all of the best adventurers to the front, creating a wall of flesh and metal while the mages and adventurers carrying ranged weapons followed behind.

“I’m sticking in the middle while Cervial’s team covers the rear. Will you walk with me, Ceria?”

“I’d be delighted to. Olesm?”

“Oh, I’d be honored. And they’re moving. Should we—?”

Yvlon and Ceria walked forwards and took their positions in the middle of the group. The Silver Spears spaced themselves out across the corridor, forming a second line that could hold if the front had to fall back.

The Human adventurer talked quietly with Ceria while Olesm lagged behind them, awkwardly chatting up Sostrom as they walked down the corridor’s increasing slope.

“I’m glad you aren’t angry at me.”

“Angry? Why would I be?”

Yvlon smiled ruefully.

“I feel like I had a lot to do with the—incident involving Ryoka earlier. I truly didn’t mean to cause that much trouble.”

Ceria shrugged awkwardly.

“That was mostly her fault.”

“Even so. My aunt had mentioned how much she wanted to meet this Runner, and I couldn’t fathom why. I wanted to test her, but not push her over the edge.”

“That girl is all edge. I don’t understand why Magnolia—well, there are certain things that strike me about her. But why the lady of Reinhart would spend so much effort on her is beyond me.”

“Beyond me as well, I’m afraid. My aunt does not confide in anyone, and she has—eclectic interests. But I do hope Ryoka doesn’t do anything rash. Once you fall into my aunt’s machinations, it is hard to break free.”

Ceria was surprised. She looked at Yvlon in the flickering light and saw the adventurer smile.

“You don’t want to capture Ryoka to gain favor with her?”

“Let’s just say I admire her independence, if not her self-control. Besides, it’s bad if Aunt Magnolia gets everything she wants. Hold up, what’s this?”

The adventurers had stopped at an open room, large and filled with stone altars and the remains of wooden tables. And curiously, open stone slabs placed symmetrically around the room.

“Strange. What kind of stone places are these? It looks like you’d put something on them, but for what? Alchemy? Look, there’s even a divot where you’d kneel, here…to do what?”

Ceria shook her head as she stared at the plinths placed around the room. They had an odd—formality to them that reminded her of a noble court. But it had no meaning to the adventurers, any of them.

“I’ve seen the like in pictures of Drath. Maybe some kind of ultra-formal area? Wait…you’d be facing this wall. And there was something here. See? A statue?”

She pointed, and the adventurers shone lights at a broken pedestal. There was only dust and fragments of stone there. Yvlon bit her lip.

“So this was maybe some kind of memorial?”

The half-Elf had to demure again. She went to the slabs of covered stone next.

“No. This is—different from above. What are those open places for? They look—big. Long enough to accommodate a body.”

Yvlon was skeptical.

“A place to sleep? They look—far too uncomfortable even if you filled them with blankets. They’re closer to legends from my family of Vampyres.”

“What?”

The Captain of the Silver Spears shrugged it off, mock-shivering.

“Oh, some long-dead monster. A children’s story. House Byres has lots of old tales like that. I should tell you the one about the Silver Dragon. But no one’s sleeping in these uncomfortable boxes. Nor do I see anyone straining their back using them as storage devices. Any other ideas, Ceria?”

Ceria shrugged. And then her eyes widened.

“I know. This is a place to put dead bodies to be cleansed before they’re buried. This isn’t a memorial. It’s a crypt.”

The adventurers around her who heard that muttered, half in agreement, the other half worried. It was good and bad news. Ceria heard Gerial explaining why to Olesm behind her.

“A crypt or a tomb is good because there’s probably treasure buried with the dead. But it usually means traps, ancient curses and hexes on the lids of tombs, and so on. Not to mention the undead.”

Yvlon raised her voice to be heard by the others.

“It’s a good sign, though. We know there’s something valuable here. Any place with this much architecture had to be important.”

Gregor nodded. He seemed happier than Ceria ever remembered seeing him.

“Could be powerful artifacts up ahead. Let’s keep moving.”

“This is a good place to fall back to, though. See—there’s only two ways in, and we can use that long corridor as a killing zone with our bows if we need to.”

Cervial pointed around the room. Yvlon nodded with the other Captains.

“If we can’t find anywhere better, we’ll camp here. But for now—let’s continue.”

The adventurers formed up again and moved onwards, a bit faster now that they knew what might lie ahead. A tomb, or perhaps a treasury for the dead. It made their hearts beat a little faster, their feet move a little quicker.

Ceria was just about to ask Yvlon more about Ryoka and what she had been told about the girl when someone exclaimed up ahead. She and Yvlon pushed forwards again and found a split in their path.

“What’s this? A split in the road? Which way did the scouts go?”

Gregor growled while Calruz squatted on the ground and looked around for a sign.

“No markings on the walls. Why didn’t they double back and warn us?”

Yvlon frowned as Cervial and Menes both pushed their way forwards.

“That is odd. Should we send a spell to contact them? Menes, you said your group used a short-distance communication spell, right?”

Menes nodded. He raised his glowing staff.

“I will talk with them. One moment—hold on, what’s this?”

The glowing bright-blue light from his staff had illuminated something further down the corridor. Menes pointed and walked over to something on the ground while the other Captains followed him.

“It’s quite large—a bag?”

It was indeed a bag, or rather, a large, bulky sack sitting on the ground. It wasn’t alone. Ceria could see a few more objects lying on the floor, although the light didn’t illuminate them.

“Careful, Menes. It could be a trap.”

“Hm. [Detect Magic]. Nothing.”

Cautiously, Menes poked the bag with the tip of his staff. He moved the sides a bit, and something spilled out. Menes swung the tip of his staff down, and his eyes widened.

“Gold? Gold?”

It was indeed gold. As the other adventurers exclaimed, Menes carefully picked up the piece of gold and stared at it.

“It’s not money obviously. But what is it? It looks—like part of something else. A broken piece of gold from a wall or—or statue or something.”

Gregor frowned.

“Is there more inside?”

Cautiously, an adventurer opened the bag and exclaimed in amazement.

“More gold! And jewels! Gods, it’s a small fortune!”

Several other adventurers clustered around instantly, but Cervial pushed them back. He bent and picked up a small ruby, staring hard at it.

“This is strange.”

“What is?”

He showed the gem to Yvlon and the others. Ceria could see it glowing in the light. It was clearly high-quality, but there was something off about it.

“Look at the sides. Stone. It was attached to something. A wall perhaps, or some kind of art?”

“You’re saying this is from some other part of the building. Looted by an adventurer…?”

“Must be. And these other…yes, these are all bags full of loot! Abandoned. Why?”

“Something got them. Or—scared them enough that they dropped everything and ran.”

“But no one ever made it down to the second floor and returned.”

The adventurers fell silent. Ceria felt the slight pricking of unease in her stomach.

Strangely, it was Olesm who spoke in the silence. He looked around in the darkness, eyes flicking around him.

“Those scouts. They never reported the split in the tunnel. And they would have come back. Where did they go?”

Yvlon opened her mouth, and then her eyes widened. A third of the adventurers in the room jerked or grabbed at their weapons. Ceria had felt it too.

Ceria and Yvlon exchanged a look.

“My [Dangersense]—”

“Ambush!”

That was the only warning they had. Something shrieked off in the distance, and the dead poured out of the walls.





1.58 H


The dead charged out of the darkness in an unending tide of desiccated corpses. Their ruined flesh and glowing eyes in hollow sockets flickered in the torch and magelight. Zombies ran, crawled, or shuffled in a wave of discolored skin, but they weren’t alone.

More undead had appeared: skeletons that sprang at the nearest adventurers with inhuman grace and Ghouls—the advanced form of a zombie, which moved and fought with supernatural speed and strength. And far worse, in between the lesser varieties of the dead, larger shapes and pale figures could be spotted.

“Crypt Lord!”

“Not just one! Four of them!”

“We’re surrounded! Retreat!”

“Hold your ground!”

Calruz’s massive voice rose above the others. He cleaved a running zombie in two as he shouted at the adventurers.

“Hold, damn you! Fall back in order! Warriors, hold, and mages retreat to the chamber!”

It was impossible to tell if anyone had heard. The undead were coming from all sides, not just the two passageways but from behind the adventurers as well.

Yvlon and Ceria stood side by side, eyes darting left and right. The undead were everywhere. They were already attacking the adventurers around Ceria and Yvlon, and only their position in the middle of the group had given them a chance to react.

Ceria raised her wand, but there were too many bodies in the way from where she was. Yvlon was in the same situation. The blonde adventurer looked behind her. The adventurers were trying to move back, but a group of the dead had appeared behind them, holding them in place.

“Where are they coming from?”

Ceria pointed.

“There! Secret passages!”

Parts of the stone wall had opened up to let the undead come pouring out. They were only small alcoves, barely large enough for a small group to stand comfortably. But the dead had been packed inside, waiting until someone stepped in their trap.

And now the trap was sprung, and death was all around.

The warriors in front of Ceria were grappling with the undead, but they were hemmed in and had trouble lifting their weapons. Yvlon stepped backwards and slashed at a skeleton that was stabbing a mage. The woman collapsed, bleeding, but disappeared under the press of legs before Ceria could grab her.

Desperately, Ceria shifted to line up a spell, but she was trapped. They were too close together. She looked at the back of a warrior in chainmail and raised her wand. She could help him with a spell—

A huge, clawed hand seized the warrior around the waist and dragged him screaming up into the air. Ceria froze as the undead monster who had seized the armored man hurled him into the press of the dead where he was instantly swarmed and torn apart.

The other adventurers around Ceria fell back rather than get into range of the thing’s claws. She tried to retreat, but now the press worked against her. She was suddenly at the front, and a monster was in front of her. It was no zombie. She knew she was staring at a Crypt Lord, one of the thinking undead.

A Crypt Lord was a dead creature animated by powerful magic that had grown even more terrible over the years since its reanimation. Whatever shape they originally had, it had been twisted by rot and decay. They stood taller than every adventurer save for Calruz, their hunched backs and huge, bloated faces grinning with more sharp teeth than a Human could have.

They weren’t teeth, but bones. Yellowed bones that had been shifted and broken to create the illusion of a mouth in their bloated hollows of skin. They had no real organs or need to imitate the living’s biology. This was just—mockery. A paradoxical grin of rotten flesh and tangled bones.

The Crypt Lords ate the dead to recover their bodies. That was why their powerful arms and legs had a terrible patchwork appearance as the flesh and bone had fused to become whole.

The Crypt Lord grinned at Ceria, and black liquid ran from between its teeth. They had blood, of a kind. Poisonous black blood that carried disease and death.

It spat, and Ceria dove at once. The black poison struck her, but most of it landed on her robes, and the magic shrugged the liquid off. She rolled to a safe patch and saw two glowing blue eyes peering at her from above.

For a second, Ceria relaxed. It was just Toren. But—this skeleton wasn’t the same. It was covered with red blood and held a jagged, broken sword in its hands. And Toren was miles away and above ground.

The bloody skeleton raised the blade and brought it down on Ceria as she tried to roll again. It struck her in the back.

Ceria shouted in agony, but again, her enchanted robes caught the blade and took most of the blow. She still felt like something was trying to crush her spine, but she was alive. Not for long, though. The skeleton raised its sword again.

Ceria pointed her wand up. A shard of ice blasted the skeleton’s head off, and the rest of the body crumpled to the floor.

Shaking, she leapt to her feet. She was exposed. The Crypt Lord spat again, but this time at another adventurer. It was too dangerous. She raised her wand and aimed.

The monster had an amalgamation of eyes it had stolen from corpses. They clustered together in huge, fleshy sockets, around fifteen individual eyeballs in each ‘eye’. They spun towards her, and she spoke.

“[Ice Spike]!”

The thick shard of ice buried itself in the Crypt Lord’s head, and a gout of black blood spurted outwards with the ruined eyeballs. The Crypt Lord roared soundlessly and ran towards Ceria.

“Duck!”

Ceria didn’t know where the voice came from, but she instantly crouched. She felt her hair catch on something, and several strands were yanked out as Cervial loosed a crossbow bolt straight into the Crypt Lord’s other eye.

This time, it did scream out loud, a wailing cry that came from multiple voices within it. Ceria staggered back as it began to flail around, striking the other undead around it as it searched for something to kill.

Ceria turned, but suddenly, five zombies appeared out of the melee and ran at her and the archer-Captain. He cursed and pulled out a shortsword rather than reload. Ceria took one down with another [Ice Spike] before two of them lunged at her.

Ceria knew over fifty spells she could use, but her wand had contained the [Ice Spike] spell and thus she could cast it faster than anything else. And she had trained with the spell until she had a [Marksman]’s precision. She hammered a shard of ice into the chest of one zombie, making it sit down hard, and then fled from the other one’s hands.

The undead Drake lurched after her, but a woman with a mace bashed it to the ground. She was one of Yvlon’s Silver Spears, although her silvery armor was covered in gore.

Ceria didn’t bother to even shout thanks. In the next moment, both she and the warrior were fighting again. She fired over the head of an archer and caught a Ghoul as it leapt down on the man. He looked up, backed away, and then shot the creature three times in the face.

More movement. Ceria spun and saw a downed figure she recognized.

A Ghoul was crouching on top of Gerial, slashing at him with its claws. Ceria didn’t hesitate. She ran forwards, drawing her belt dagger from its sheath. She planted it in the back of the Ghouls’ head, ramming it through the softened skull and into the exposed brain.

To her horror, the Ghoul didn’t die from her attack. It turned its head; glowing crimson eyes flashed with hatred at her. It raised a claw, and Gerial kicked up. The Ghoul tumbled off him, and he sat up and ran his sword through its shoulder.

Ceria raised her wand and blasted the creature’s face apart. It went down for good, and she helped Gerial to his feet. His face was a bloody mask, but he grabbed a potion from his belt and emptied it over his injuries. They began healing even as Ceria watched.

He gasped and shuddered as Ceria covered them with her wand.

“Dead gods, this is a mess. Where are the others?”

“I don’t know.”

Most of the torches had been dropped on the ground, and only a few [Light] spells were illuminating the darkness. It made everything twice as hard as adventurers mistook each other for enemies.

“Gerial. We can’t regroup like this. I need to cast [Illumination], but I’ll need defending.”

He nodded.

“Do it.”

Ceria raised her wand and began focusing on the spell. It was so difficult as adventurers fought and monsters screamed around her, but she had to. Her mind was focused on a single point, and then that single point became many. She held the image of what she wanted in her head and willed it to be certainty.

“Form on me! Horns of Hammerad, to me!”

Gerial shouted as he struck and kicked undead around them, trying to keep them from reaching Ceria. The magic in her surged. She was in a half-place, half in this world, watching, fearing, trying desperately to cast a little faster to save her friends, half in the world of magic, riding the eddies and currents and seeking the truth.

Motion. She saw a Drake—the only one that wasn’t dead in this place—running away. A break in the dead coming from behind had created an opening, and he ran through it, fleeing the battle.

Part of her wanted to shout, but the magic was nearly ready. Olesm was running in the other direction faster than Ceria thought he could move. Eight other adventurers fled with him, all of them mages to judge by their clothing.

A group of skeletons was in hot pursuit. They disappeared into the darkness, and Ceria prayed she wouldn’t be too late. The magic reached a tipping point, and she opened her mouth.

“[Illumination]!”

Light suddenly filled the long corridor. Adventurers cried out, shielding their faces as orbs of light flew up from the ground, bright, shining, white beacons spaced ten feet apart. They turned the darkness of the crypt into day.

For a second, the undead faltered with the living. They hesitated, perhaps as the Crypt Lords sensed their advantage was gone. The adventurers shook the temporary blindness from their eyes. Now they could see the enemy. They roared and attacked.

Gerial crashed into two skeletons, scattering their bones. Ceria raised her wand and used another spell.

A small wave of water struck Gerial behind the knees. He staggered, but his heavy armor kept him upright. The skeletons weren’t so lucky. They fell to the ground and immediately began pushing themselves upright.

That wasn’t her main goal, though. Ceria aimed her wand at the spreading pool of water, and it froze. Gerial cursed as the water turned to ice; he was suddenly surrounded by a huge area of iced ground. Adventurers jumped out of the way rather than fight on the unstable footing, but the dead were less intelligent. They slipped and fell as they came after them, easy targets.

More zombies rushed at Ceria, and she ran back. The adventurers had formed a rough circle, and she found another mage throwing bolts of fire off of his staff. He whirled and smiled at her.

“Ceria!”

“Sostrom!”

“You take that side, I’ll take this.”

They stood back-to-back, blasting corpses back with their magic. Ceria spotted Calruz and several other warriors fighting the Crypt Lords, keeping the four massive creatures at bay while the lesser undead tried to break through the ranks of adventurers.

“We need more space!”

Sostrom yelled it in Ceria’s ears. She nodded.

“There! Get to Menes!”

The two mages ran back, letting other warriors close the gap. The mage-Captain was hurling lightning with his staff at a Crypt Lord. Ceria grabbed him by the shoulder, and he spun.

“We need to cut them off! Can you cast a spell?”

Menes shouted back.

“I can! But I need an opening! And the dead are behind us as well!”

“No!”

Sostrom pointed as Ceria and Menes jerked around to look at him.

“Look!”

Another hole had opened up behind the embattled adventurers. Flashes of light and spells blasted apart zombies and skeletons. More adventurers, fighting in the burial room they’d passed. Ceria grabbed Menes’ arm and screamed in his ear.

“There’s our opening! If you can buy us time—”

“Give me a minute. Can you clear the area first?”

Ceria nodded.

“Sostrom—”

“On it.”

He covered both mages as they began to concentrate again. Ceria raised her wand and felt the heat building in it. She aimed and shouted at the adventurers in front of her.

“I’m going to cast a big one. Everyone get back!”

They looked around, saw the fiery glow coming from her wand, and scattered to the left and right. Ceria saw Gerial ram into Calruz to get the Minotaur to move aside. She aimed at one of the Crypt Lords as it swiped at the retreating adventurers.

“[Fireball]!”

A glowing orange orb of fire three feet in diameter burst from her wand. It shot down the corridor and struck the Crypt Lord in the chest.

Ceria felt the blast kick her backwards and heard only ringing. Sostrom caught her, and for a few seconds, all was smoke and confusion. Then Ceria saw the Crypt Lord howling, caught ablaze, and the dead around it scattered, literally in fiery pieces or thrown to the ground.

She shouted at the mage next to her.

“Now, Menes!”

His face was covered in sweat. Menes raised his staff and pointed at the open space as the undead tried to gather for another charge.

“[Wall of Flames].”

Fire burst from his staff and shot past the adventurers, some of whom were unlucky enough to be scorched by the magical flames. A curtain of fire blocked off the corridor, each flame reaching nearly to the ceiling. The adventurers in front fell back as the undead entered the flames and retreated, burning and screaming.

“Now—everyone, to the rear!”

Yvlon’s voice rose, and the adventurers turned. Some of the undead had been caught past the fire. They were hacked to pieces, and the group ran back to the large room. Calruz’s voice followed hers.

“The spell is about to run out! Mages, buy us some time.”

Menes nodded. He raised his staff, and two more mages joined him. They pointed at the single entrance to the room, and walls of light and magical runes appeared on the floor, blocking entry.

“[Ward of Safety].”

“[Lesser Barrier].”

“[Sanctuary of Light].”

None of them were particularly high-level spells, all being Tier 1 and Tier 2, but together they did what an individual spell would not.

Ceria saw the wall of flames spell Menes had cast die out, and then the undead ran at the barrier. They crashed against the spells, and though they struck and hit the magical walls, they were unable to break through.

The adventurers watched, tense, until the undead began to pull back. The four Crypt Lords stared silently at the magic and then began walking back into the darkness. The undead followed silently. In a matter of minutes, they were gone.

The battle was over. And just as if another spell had been cast, suddenly Ceria could hear the other noises around her. Men and women crying out in pain, the voices, the scraping of metal and splashing as people poured potions over wounds or took off armor to get at injuries—all the noises that had been covered by the pounding of her heart.

“Screw me with a Wyvern’s tooth, what the hell was that?”

Gregor was shouting in the center of the milling adventurers. He was holding a piece of cloth to stop the bleeding as a healing potion regenerated a huge bite that had been taken out of one of his legs. He pointed to the corridor filled with corpses.

“They tore us apart out there! That was an ambush! A damn ambush from the undead! Has anyone heard of such a thing?”

“How many people are injured? Who’s missing?”

Yvlon strode around the room, listening as adventurers called out. Ceria looked around for her group and ran to the Horns of Hammerad. Miraculously, they were all there. Marian, Gerial, Calruz, Sostrom—

“Hunt? Where’s Hunt?”

Ceria looked around in sudden panic.

“Here. He’s here, Ceria.”

One of the other warriors, Barr, pointed to the ground. Ceria saw Hunt was lying with his head propped up against a pack, his face twisted into a grimace, hands frozen in a clawed position.

“What—”

“A Wight got him from behind. It raked him with those damn paralyzing claws, and he froze up. He’s okay—but the magic isn’t going away for a while.”

Ceria sighed in relief. It wasn’t good—Hunt was out of commission—but he wasn’t dead. She looked at the other adventurers. They were all battered, including herself. Even with healing potions, they all had some injuries. Except for Calruz. The Minotaur looked like he’d barely taken a scratch in the fight, and only the gore painting every inch of his battleaxe testified to his involvement.

“Ceria. It is good you are well. The lighting spell was well-timed, as was the fireball.”

He nodded at her as he scanned the room. She opened her mouth for a scathing retort and then closed it.

“Yeah. I’m glad everyone’s here. How many people didn’t make it?”

The answer was six, which was nothing short of a miracle. But it was really only six dead and many more wounded. Most of the injuries the adventurers had taken could be cured with healing potions, but several had lost fingers or limbs, and some had broken bones in ways that couldn’t be healed with a mere potion.

The hardest-hit group had been Cervial’s Flawless Flights. They’d lost two in the ambush, and two more in the scouting group. He was weeping as he reloaded his crossbow with another bolt.

“I fired it right at the damn monster, but it just took Elise and ate her. Damn it. Damn them.”

“That was a disaster.”

Menes agreed as he rested on a stone slab. His face was grey, a sign he’d used too much magic. Ceria felt the same way, although the mana potion she’d taken was helping.

“How did they sneak up on us like that? We let our guards down, thinking the undead couldn’t.”

“They were being led by Crypt Lords, that’s how. Those bastards can command the other dead.”

“Crypt Lords. I’ve never fought their kind. Those giant things at the back—they can think?”

Menes and Ceria nodded.

“How dangerous are they?”

“A Crypt Lord is a threat capable of wiping out a Silver-rank team if they’re not careful. Recommended level to combat them is…around 22. Possibly 26 if you factor in their special abilities. They’re mostly dangerous because they can command the dead around them to do things like lie in wait or use pincer attacks.”

Gregor swore.

“Gods. No wonder Charlez and his team didn’t make it out. We very nearly didn’t either.”

“Good job on that [Illumination] spell, Ceria. Without it, we would have been cooked.”

Ceria bowed her head as Yvlon nodded at her. Cervial nodded dully, and Gregor grunted.

“Yes, and the [Mages] certainly saved us. But there’s a problem. Where’s that damned lizard?”

“W-who? Me?”

Gregor scowled across the room at Olesm. The Drake flinched as he stormed towards him.

“You! I saw you running away! I should run you through myself, you coward!”

Olesm raised his hands as Gregor’s fists tightened.

“Please, allow me to explain—”

“Hold it, Gregor!”

Another mage sitting with his back to a wall raised his hand wearily as Gregor’s face reddened. He pointed at Olesm.

“That Drake didn’t run. He saved us. And you as well. When the undead were running at us, he got a group of us mages and used a Skill to let us escape the ambush. That let us get back here and open a path for the rest of you.”

“What?”

Gregor stared incredulously at Olesm. The Drake grinned nervously at him.

“[Rapid Retreat]. It’s, ah, a [Tactician] skill, although many [Thieves] and similar classes know it too. I heard Calruz shouting to get back over here, and I thought the rest of you would be right behind me.”

The adventurers murmured in appreciation. Gregor hesitated and then nodded slowly.

“Well. Good job. My apologies. Thank you for doing that. If you hadn’t—”

“It was a terrible ambush. My [Dangersense] only went off at the last moment. If we’d paid more attention to the scouts—”

“They were our best. Nothing should have been able to take out all of them without making a sound. Not even a horde of the undead. All of them had escape skills. So how—”

Yvlon rested a hand on Cervial’s shoulder comfortingly. She looked around at the other adventurers.

“We can worry about that after the threat is gone. Those spells won’t last forever. And we need a fast decision. Do we press on, now we know how many undead are out there, including Crypt Lords? Or do we retreat?”

“Retreat?”

Even Cervial raised his head at that word. He shook his head, dark fury in his eyes.

“No. We don’t do that. That was an ambush, not a fair fight. We’re going to go after those monsters and shoot them to bits.”

“Any idea on how?”

That came from Gerial. He stood at the barrier and stared out into the darkness. Ceria’s [Illumination] spell had cast light on the entire floor, but only as far as she’d walked. The branching corridor was still dark, and not a single undead could be seen from where he stood.

“They’ve already hidden themselves again. If we keep going, we’ll just run into another ambush. Granted, we know it’s coming, but I’d rather not do that again.”

Menes nodded as he got to his feet slowly.

“We could set traps and fortify this location. If we need to retreat—”

“An extended battle like that is risky. We’d be looking over our shoulders the entire time, and we’d never know we got them all.”

Yvlon sighed as she wiped her sword clean with a cloth.

“Those Crypt Lords are deadly. We need to take them out first. Do that and the rest of the undead lose a lot of their threat.”

“Do we have any way of detecting them? A spell?”

“We could search for trapped rooms, but we’ll burn through magic fast that way. It’s risky.”

Cervial bared his teeth.

“There’s no way in hell I’m retreating, not without a huge pile of gold to put on my people’s tombstones.”

“I’m right with you, but how—?”

“I have a plan.”

Every adventurer turned, and the arguing stopped as Calruz spoke. Ceria looked up from her second mana potion and had to stop herself from raising her eyebrows. Calruz? His plans were about as complex as a Goblin’s, and everyone knew it. Including him. He left all of the finesse to Gerial and Ceria.

But the Minotaur had taken the stage, and it was her job to back him up. Or kick him in the tail if he said something really stupid.

“We should face them all at once.”

Ceria’s foot twitched, but Gregor was quicker.

“Are you mad, Calruz? Why in the hells do you want to do that? They nearly tore us apart in that ambush, and you want to take on the rest all at once?”

The Minotaur snorted at him.

“You speak of seeking them out in their homes, but that is foolish. We are adventurers. We are stronger than they are. If we remove the element of surprise and cowardly attacks from behind, we stand a better chance of wiping them out at once than fighting with our backs to the walls every five minutes.”

The other Captains and vice-Captains fell silent at that. Yvlon raised her eyebrows and looked at Menes, who nodded.

“Calruz is right. In a straight battle without an ambush, we’d hold the advantage. If we could turn it into that, I’d place all my bets on our side winning handily. But how do you propose we do that, Calruz? Those monsters aren’t exactly smart, but they’re clever enough not to commit to an all-out attack. You saw how they retreated once we put the barriers up.”

“I will lure them out. If one of you possesses a [Loudness] spell or something similar, I will provoke them into attacking.”

“I know that spell. But are the rest of you agreed…?”

Menes glanced around. Yvlon hesitated before nodding, but Gregor and Cervial were already picking up their weapons.

Calruz glanced around.

“You. [Tactician]. Do you have any skills that would turn the tide of battle?”

Olesm gulped.

“Yes. A…a few. One good one. Should I use it now…?”

“No. Wait. We will recover a while longer. And then we will go and destroy those who would take our own.”

Calruz’s eyes flashed. He lifted his battleaxe, and the adventurers began to stand. It swept over them, a moment of passion that turned to anger. They had been attacked. Hurt. Some of their friends had died. It was time to fight again.

Ceria felt the same mood swing through her. She eyed her wand and estimated that she could cast quite a number of spells before she ran out of mana. Yes, the undead had struck first and done damage. But they hadn’t killed the adventurers.

Now it was their turn to strike back.



——



Calruz strode down the corridor and waited as the adventurers formed up around him. He hadn’t gone too far from their room, which was now their camp for the wounded and where they’d fittingly placed their dead. He waited with his hands on his axe as Menes cast the spell to amplify his voice.

“Done. I’ll cast a [Muffle] spell so we don’t get the worst of whatever you’re about to do.”

Calruz nodded. He stared into the darkness. All of the undead had vanished into the darkness, leaving only the truly dead behind. Yvlon stood next to Calruz, staring up at him curiously.

“Do you have [Taunt] as a Skill? I don’t know if that would even work on the dead…”

“Pah.”

That single word echoed loudly in the darkness. Calruz’s already loud, rumbling voice had been amplified several times over so that Yvlon winced. He motioned her back silently and whispered, which was still louder than shouting with the spell in effect.

“I do not need a Skill. Be ready. When they attack, we will crush them.”

Yvlon nodded and stepped back into line. This time, all of the best warriors and the other four adventuring Captains were in front, with all the mages and archers towards the back. Ceria stood next to Sostrom, heart beating rapidly. Assuming Calruz’s undisclosed plan worked, they would be in a perfect position to meet the undead. If he knew what he was doing.

When the [Muffle] spell had been cast, Calruz narrowed his eyes. He raised his battleaxe and gripped it tightly. Then he raised his voice and shouted.

No. Not just shouted. His first word made Ceria’s ears ring, and she went temporarily deaf as his voice rumbled through the entire building.

“Pathetic spirits of the dead! I am Calruz, leader of the Horns of Hammerad! By the House of Minos, I challenge you. If there is any honor left yet in your defiled corpses—face me and meet your end!”

Outside the ruins, the guardsmen and adventurers standing guard in front of the building looked around. They thought they’d heard something, and the shifting of dirt within made them reach for their weapons. But no attack came. Above, that was.

Even with both her hands covering her ears and the [Muffle] spell, Ceria could still only hear ringing after Calruz had finished. His voice had echoed in her bones, and she felt almost nauseous as well.

She tried to say something and realized she still wasn’t hearing. She shouted and heard a bit of sound.

“What?”

Sostrom looked at her. Ceria pointed. He looked and then saw it.

Movement. In the shadows, in the darkness of the long corridor at the edges of where Ceria’s [Illumination] spell had been cast, things moved. A huge shape appeared, and grinning teeth and long claws made of yellowed bones moved into view.

One Crypt Lord, and then two, three…four of them appeared out of the darkness, followed by a horde of the dead. They opened their mouths and howled at Calruz as the Minotaur took his place in the line of adventurers.

“Strike me blind, Calruz!”

Gerial had to shout above the ringing of his ears. He grinned wildly at the Minotaur as Calruz bared his teeth at him.

“How’d you know that would work?”

“The dead do not like sound any more than you do. It is an intrusion. I have challenged their honor. And so—we begin!”

Menes really should have taken the [Loudness] spell off of Calruz. He did, but only after the Minotaur’s large voice had set everyone’s ears ringing a second time. The Minotaur pointed.

The undead were indeed massing to charge. The adventurers waited, hearts beating, ears filled with echoes of thunder.

Olesm cleared his throat. Ceria thought he did, at any rate. She was still having trouble hearing, but the Drake spoke loudly.

“It looks like it’s my turn.”

“What?”

“I said—never mind. Here!”

The Drake pointed as the undead began to run down the long corridor. He opened his mouth, and Ceria heard the words clearly.

“[Attack Formation].”

All of the adventures gasped and looked around. As Olesm had spoken, the weapons and armor they carried felt like they had grown lighter. Even the mages felt a second wind, and their magic came to them more strongly than before.

Ceria gaped at Olesm as he grinned at her.

“What was that? A Skill?”

He nodded.

“I can only do that once a day at my level. But yes—it can change a battle. The rest of my skills are mostly defensive or information-oriented, so this is all I can do.”

“What?”

“Never mind!”

The undead were running now, closing the long distance at alarming speed. Olesm raised his voice again as he pointed to one of the Crypt Lords. It was the one Ceria had hit with the fireball, and though it had eaten some eyes, it was still half-blind as well.

“That one is more injured than the rest. Bring it down first.”

The [Mages] around him nodded as they readied their spells. Ceria watched the undead approach. Cervial loosed crossbow bolt after crossbow bolt with the other three adventurers in his group, felling zombies and skeletons, but the Crypt Lords and the rest of the horde ran on.

Yvlon raised her voice as the undead drew closer. They were around thirty meters away and closing ever faster. She unsheathed her sword and pointed.

“Mages!”

The magic casters needed no further invitation. Ceria and Sostrom pointed their wands and loosed their spells along with the other casters, filling the hallway with magic as the warriors kept their heads down.

The first row of undead met a wave of magic and simply…vanished. Lightning crackled through gouts of flame, and spiraling bolts of energy blew limbs apart. Not all the magic had gone into the attack though; pools of slippery liquid appeared on the ground, slowing the undead, and a second wall of flames turned a group of zombies into screaming torches.

Half of the mages loosed another spell before the undead were too close. Calruz stood upright, and Gregor shouted.

“Now, warriors, follow me! Charge!”

The armed rose to their feet and roared, drowning out the howling of the undead as they ran straight at the undead. Ceria saw the first zombie raise its hand to strike Gerial before Calruz’s massive fist punched straight through the zombie’s hand.

The adventurers and undead collided in a crash of sound that nearly rendered Ceria deaf again. But she was already running with the other mages, firing shards of ice at one of the Crypt Lords as she did.



——



All was motion. Gerial spun and cleaved the head off of one zombie effortlessly. He felt like his body was on fire. He felt like his heart was on fire. He was fighting at his best thanks to Olesm’s Skill. And not just him. Around him, the Captains were cutting through the undead now that they didn’t have to worry about hitting allies in front of them.

“[Whirlwind Cleave]!”

Gregor’s axe scythed through the stomachs of three zombies and a Ghoul, dropping them to the ground where the big man crushed their heads with an armored boot. He turned and barely dodged a Crypt Lord’s massive hand, but Cervial raised his crossbow and loosed a bolt right into the monster’s face.

“[Point-Blank Shot]!”

The flesh around the bolt tore, and the big monster lurched back. Gregor and two other warriors attacked it from below as it tried to recover, and Gerial caught a skeleton that was trying to attack them from behind. He bashed it repeatedly with the pommel of his sword and watched it collapse as he broke a hole in its skull.

Yvlon’s sword tip exited the neck of one zombie as she struck a skeleton in the head with her shield. The blow shattered the undead’s skull, and it collapsed, the crimson light fading from its eyes.

She whirled, and her shield came up to block a Ghoul’s slash. She pushed the monster away, and it staggered. Gerial saw Yvlon pull her sword out of the dead man’s stomach, and the Ghoul folded up. He hadn’t even seen her strike.

Gerial turned and found another Crypt Lord about to spit at him and Yvlon. He tackled her to the floor, and the black rain covered another adventurer, who fell to the ground, screaming.

“Back, back!”

Someone yanked Gerial to his feet. He looked up and saw Sostrom as the mage struck the Crypt Lord in the head with several fiery bolts of magic. It roared and seized him in one huge fist.

“Sostrom!”

The mage screamed in agony as the Crypt Lord squeezed. Gerial stabbed it in the stomach desperately, but it was too big and wouldn’t let his friend go.

“Move!”

He felt something shove him aside and then Calruz was there. The Minotaur swung his battleaxe, and Sostrom fell to the ground, the severed hand still holding him.

The Crypt Lord howled and grabbed at Calruz, but the Minotaur dropped his axe and gripped the undead’s head with both of his hands. He roared in fury as he ripped the Crypt Lord’s head off. The black blood spurted from the stump and covered the Minotaurs’ fur as he hurled the head and bit of spine away.

“Gerial! Back me up!”

Gerial nodded and fended off a Ghoul while Calruz reclaimed his axe. The Minotaur’s skin was fizzing where the black blood had landed, and he unceremoniously dumped two potions over his fur and then downed an antidote.

Several feet away, Ceria was in trouble. She’d been separated by Sostrom when the monster grabbed him, and a Ghoul was trying to catch her as she dodged backwards.

Gerial sliced a huge hole in the Ghoul’s side, giving Ceria an opening. She hit the Ghoul with three ice spikes, sending it spinning away.

A zombie struck Gerial from behind, hitting him in the back and knocking him to the floor. It fell on Gerial, biting and tearing as he shouted for help.

Ceria didn’t hesitate. She pointed her wand at the zombie’s back.

“[Flashfire]!”

Instantly, the zombie burst into flames. It stopped clawing at Gerial and started writhing, trying to put out the flames. Gerial shoved the corpse off him and got to his feet. The zombie tried to crawl after him, but Calruz ran forward and bashed its skull in with a single kick.

“How many Crypt Lords are down?”

“Two—no, three!”

Gregor had just cleaved the head off of the Crypt Lord he’d been fighting. The last monstrous undead hesitated as its minions surrounded it.

“I will take care of it if you get me close.”

“Done!”

Ceria nodded, and she and Sostrom ran towards Menes. The mage turned, and then all three began blasting at the undead, sending charred and broken bodies spinning to the ground.

Calruz looked at Gerial as the other man panted for air.

“With me?”

“Of course!”

They charged into the ranks of the undead. Gerial body-rushed a skeleton and planted his sword in a zombie’s chest as Calruz swung his axe and sent body parts flying. The Crypt Lord raised its head and stared at the Minotaur, possibly seeing a threat in the only creature larger than it was.

It raised its clawed hands at the same time Calruz raised his blade. Gerial knew what he was going to do and ran backwards as Calruz roared.

The Minotaur brought down his axe, cutting through the Crypt Lord’s twisted arms as it tried to block. He cleaved downwards, not stopping for bone or sinew as he vertically bisected the front part of the Crypt Lord’s body and struck the ground in an impact that smashed the stone floor.

Even from several feet away, Ceria felt the impact in her bones. The Crypt Lord lay on the ground, bones and skin twisted and torn.

The undead faltered and then began to attack again. But suddenly, they were without their controlling intelligence. Calruz roared, and the adventurers formed up around him. They pressed the undead back, back, until they hit a wall and were ground into paste upon it.

In the silence after the battle, Olesm shakily walked around the few twitching corpses and stared at the Crypt Lord Calruz had killed with his [Hammer Blow] skill. He stared at Calruz as the Minotaur leaned on his battleaxe, panting.

“I—I didn’t hear you say anything.”

Calmly, Calruz raised his axe and shook the bits of gore from it.

“Not every Skill or spell must be shouted.”

The Drake nodded slowly and looked around. The battle was over. He looked at his own sword. He’d hung back and fought with the mages, but he’d still killed several zombies and skeletons. He felt shaky, sick, exhausted as the adrenaline left him. He looked at Ceria as the half-Elf downed another mana potion and wiped at her mouth.

“We’re alive. Now what?”

The half-Elf grinned at Olesm, threw up a bit as the mana potion ran through her system, and grinned even harder. Blood and entrails had painted her face, but she didn’t seem to mind.

“Now? Now we get the treasure.”





1.59 H


“What about this room?”

“Empty.”

Sostrom shook his head as he walked out of another dark room, his staff glowing. Calruz stomped out behind him, growling irately. Ceria tried not to scowl at her friend, but it was hard.

“Not a thing?”

“You can see for yourself.”

Sostrom pointed into the dark room and shook his head. He traced a line of pallid blue light, too pale to be natural, in a cone around the worn stone. Smooth stone, possibly painted once, but fragmented away. Dust and tiny insects skittered away from the light, and it fell upon a marvel of architecture.

Deep, carved passages, even the rough, broken reliefs of what had once perhaps been complex statues. Now—smashed and rotted with age. A marvel, still, to [Builders] looking for decent stone or perhaps [Historians].

Nothing for adventurers. Faceless, eyeless statues revealed only gaping wounds where what might have once been valuable metal or gems. Someone had been here first—and if there had been books, cloth, aught at all beyond the bleak stone and rubbish strewn about—even wood had crumbled to dust. Sostrom’s staff glowed brighter as he set it down with a sigh.

“Whatever was in here, it wasn’t a treasury. And now it’s long gone.”

“Damn.”

Ceria cursed and kicked at the ground. Olesm peered over her shoulder into the empty room. He shuddered as a handful of crypt beetles scurried away. But then he looked peeved.

“I don’t get it. This is the lowest level, isn’t it? And you said there would be treasure—”

“I did. But who knew this place would be so cursed big?”

“But the treasure’s around here somewhere, right?”

Ceria growled at Olesm, and he backed away, claws raised. Gerial put a hand on her shoulder, but she sensed the tension in it too.

“Most likely. We just haven’t found it yet, and we’re all tired. Why don’t you go with Sostrom and check those rooms out?”

Sostrom made a face, but walked with Olesm down the dark corridor to peer into another room.

Ceria made a face and patted Gerial’s hand with hers. She turned, lowering her voice. She felt embarrassed—she was the veteran here. She couldn’t act like a child.

“Sorry, Gerial.”

“I know how you’re feeling. But he’s trying to be helpful.”

“Plus, this is his first adventure, and he thinks this is going to be Chalence and we’ll be famous like all the greenhorns. I know. It’s just—”

It was later. In fact, it was two hours later. The last of the undead had been killed and their remains incinerated with a spell, and those adventurers wounded too badly to move had been sent back to the burial room. A few more had remained as guards in case more undead popped up, but the rest had been searching nonstop since then.

Searching for treasure.

“Any word from Gregor’s team?”

They’d split into two groups, one going down the left passage, the other the right. Of all the teams, Calruz’s hadn’t lost any adventurers besides Hunt in either battle, so they’d taken a few of Menes’ mages while the other adventurers under Gregor had gone left. Yvlon had remained with the wounded, and they were keeping up a stream of communications with several adventurers who ran messages across the vast ruins.

“We just had one come by. There he is—”

Gerial led Ceria towards a panting adventurer drinking water and talking to Calruz.

“Any word on the other team’s progress?”

The man made a face.

“Nothing substantial. They’ve come across more empty rooms, same as you. Dozens upon dozens of them. It’s a warren down here, I swear. There’s some kind of urns in one room—just filled with dust, whatever’s in them is long gone. Old scrolls in another, none magical. They found a few undead, but nothing else. How’s it going over here?”

“Uneventful. We killed a few zombies, but they’re mostly cleared out here as well. Has Yvlon seen anything?”

“Nothing. I’ll get back to Gregor’s side of things if you’ve nothing else.”

Calruz grunted irritably, and the man took off. Gerial shook his head as he watched the man jog slowly off into the darkness, a ball of light following him.

“This is where a Runner would have come in handy.”

“This is where a hundred Runners would come in handy. They could search this place faster than we can.”

Ceria kicked at a wall. She knew she was frustrated, but she was exhausted from fighting and irritable from countless annoying questions from a certain Drake. Calruz had suggested quite sensibly—which was surprising—that instead of splitting up, their team should move together closely to avoid unpleasant surprises. The need to check each room and hallway for traps or ambushes had saved them a few nasty surprises, but it meant they were moving at a snail’s pace.

The fire of battle had left all the adventurers tired, it was true, but more than even that made the searching arduous. The ruins had become silent once more, and somehow, without the presence of the undead, it made everything feel more ominous.

Ceria kept expecting another zombie to pop out of the shadows, and one or two had—but the feeling hadn’t disappeared. The worst thing about an ambush is that you didn’t stop worrying after you survived one. Rather, you kept worrying it was only the first.

Gerial was probably feeling the same, but he still tried to be reasonable.

“You know he’s never done this before. And he helped us get through that fight a lot more easily than we would have otherwise. Just don’t snap at him.”

“I know. I know. But he keeps asking and—what if he’s right?”

“Yeah.”

Gerial, Ceria, and Calruz all fell silent. Treasure. They were all certain—had been certain—it was down here. You didn’t have ruins with this many guardians without treasure of some kind. But what if the valuable goods had been knowledge or something more intangible?

What if the dead had just congregated here because this was a glorified graveyard, and the only goods were the few bags of gold and jewels they’d recovered from the dead adventurers? It was a good haul for a single team, but wouldn’t even recoup the losses of their expedition.

Ruins could potentially be sources of amazing wealth, like the Ruins of Albez where magical items were still hidden under the rubble. But sometimes ruins were just old.

You heard stories, sometimes, of adventurers who would fight their way down to the lowest part of a dungeon, sacrificing all they had, losing friends and bleeding each step of the way to discover they’d cleared out an ancient storage house for grain or the living quarters of some subterranean people. That was the nightmare that hid behind the dream, and Ceria and the other adventurers were living it right now.

“We’ve still got a ways to go. There’s plenty of chances the vault is just ahead.”

“Sure.”

Ceria nodded, and Calruz grunted. She sighed and was about to stand up when she heard pounding feet.

All three adventurers grabbed at their weapons, and the others down the hall turned, ready for battle. But the woman who ran towards them was beaming and waving her arms.

“We’ve found something! Possibly a treasury!”

The shock that ran through Ceria was electric. She smiled, and the other adventurers whooped and cheered.

“Where is it? How big?”

“It’s right at the other end of the ruins, down the other passage.”

The woman pointed back as she explained.

“We’re not sure it’s a treasury, but it has every sign of—they’ve found a huge pair of double doors. Sealed. Magical runes of warding on the front, and Menes says some of them look like warnings.”

Ceria frowned at the same time Gerial did.

“Wait a second. That’s doesn’t sound like a vault to me. It sounds like a guarded treasury, the kind that has the nastiest monster waiting right behind the door. You didn’t try to open it, right?”

The adventurer rolled her eyes.

“We’re not idiots. Menes and the other mages are already setting up traps near the entrance with Cervial’s team. Yvlon wants a hallway full of traps before we crack the seal.”

She grinned. Like Ceria, she had a streak of blood wiped from one of her nostrils down her chin, and it was cracked and dried like the healed bite wound that had ripped across one shoulder. But she was alive. This—this was adventuring.

“Cervial’s group even has two bear traps. Don’t know how they carried them all the way down, but they’re setting them up. Even if what’s inside is as big as an Ogre, it won’t be able to ignore that.”

Ceria had seen the iron and occasionally steel contraptions used to hunt bears and larger monsters. Not just black bears or brown ones, but Mossbears. Mothbears too. They were nasty, vicious, and she’d nearly stepped in one more than once in her homeland. Damn [Trappers]. She shuddered, but it was a fine weapon to use on a monster.

“As soon as you lot finish on your side, we’ll seal off this passage with a spell and open those doors. Yvlon is going to join us, and we’ll see exactly what’s inside. Menes says the runes might be warning of the undead guardians, and if so, we just killed them all!”

“Or more could be inside. Wait for us.”

Calruz was, again, the surprising voice of caution, but he sounded eager. The woman nodded impatiently.

“We’ll have so many damn traps and fall-back points we’ll kill a thousand of ‘em once we’re set up. How soon until you’ll be done here? Gregor wants to know.”

Ceria and Gerial looked at Calruz. He shrugged.

“We’ve found nothing of worth so far. Give us a few minutes to gather everyone, and we’ll follow you.”

“Well, hurry up. Gregor wants to crack the seal this instant, and the other two Captains are the only thing holding him back.”

The woman grinned and dashed back as the other adventurers began to chatter excitedly. Ceria and Gerial exchanged a look.

“Warded doors? That’s right out of one of those classic stories you hear about. Odds are three-to-one it’s trapped or something nasty is lurking inside. Gregor better not open them before we get there.”

“He’s no idiot. But Yvlon has the right idea. Regardless of what’s in there, we can turn the passageway into a killing field. Even ten Crypt Lords wouldn’t survive a fully spelled passage if we combine resources.”

“Hey, hey everyone!”

That voice came from behind the others. They turned to see Olesm running towards them, beaming in excitement.

“Olesm? You’ll never believe this, but we found something! A vault, sealed by magic, over on the other side of the ruins.”

The Drake skidded to a stop and gaped. He grinned.

“Really? That’s great news! But we found something as well!”

“You did?”

Ceria exchanged a glance with the others, but they followed as Olesm eagerly led the way back down the corridor. They stopped at a huge opening in the wall, possibly where doors had once stood. Olesm pointed in.

“Look—but be quiet!”

He pointed, and Ceria gasped as she stared into a massive room. It was some kind of crypt. Well, the whole ruins were a giant crypt. Only this was the crypt inside of the crypt. What that all meant was—

“Tombs.”

“Coffins.”

Hundreds of them. Each one was stone, spaced apart evenly in a room that was so large it made Ceria feel as if she was standing outside again. She could barely see the far wall. The only light in the massive room came from a single staff. Sostrom was just inside, staring at one of the walls.

“This is the place where all the dead go.”

Olesm whispered loudly in Ceria’s ear.

“It must have countless tombs, probably with a lot of important people! And probably treasure if they bury their dead with their valuables like we Drakes do!”

That was true, but Ceria stared at the tombs and had another thought.

“They could all be undead in those graves. There’s no telling how many of them reanimated with the Crypt Lords about.”

The other adventurers crowding behind her groaned and grabbed at their weapons. Gerial shushed them while Olesm whispered.

“That’s what Sostrom said. But he found something else in there as well.”

He pointed, and Ceria saw the mage looking up at something on the wall. She nudged Calruz, and he nodded, so Ceria slowly approached with the others.

Sostrom jumped when Ceria put her hand on his shoulder. He whirled, staff raised, and relaxed when he saw her face. He bent down and whispered to her.

“Ceria. You nearly scared the piss out of me.”

“Better that than you screaming. What are you looking at?”

Carefully, Sostrom edged to one side and raised his staff higher so Ceria could get a look at what he was seeing. The blue-white light illuminated a dark stone wall, but etched into it deeply were…

“Words?”

“Something like that. It’s not magic—at least, no runes I’ve seen before. But what language it is I can’t tell for the life of me.”

Ceria stared up at the strange words, if words they were. She was familiar with several written languages and she had travelled far and wide, but for all that, she had never seen this style of writing. She beckoned, and Olesm softly padded over with the other adventurers following.

“Olesm. What do you make of this?”

The Drake frowned up at the wall as Gerial turned, watching the rest of the room for movement. There was none, but the countless tombs disturbed him greatly. He could just imagine something creeping up on them while they studied the wall, and so he faced the other way while his friends conferred.

“I’m not sure. It looks like some kind of message, but is it a memorial or something else? A memorandum? The script…looks familiar.”

Ceria peered at him. Her first instinct was to assume it was Drake writing. Everyone spoke the same language, obviously, but the Drakes and other species had different written languages.

“You can’t read it? Does it look like something your people might have written long ago?”

He hesitated.

“It—it could be something written in the past. Like I said, it’s vaguely similar. But I never knew if we changed written languages. I certainly can’t read it.”

“Is this important?”

Gerial winced as Calruz’s voice echoed through the room. The Minotaur wasn’t worried about waking anything. He folded his arms as he stared at the carvings.

“It could be nothing. But it might give us a clue as to what this place was or what it contains.”

“But you cannot read it.”

“I can.”

Gerial twisted his head and stared at Ceria in disbelief. She was raising her wand, and the color had changed to a light purple as she illuminated the wall.

“A little spell I picked up when I was at Wistram. [Translate].”

Sostrom whistled softly.

“That’s handy.”

Marian laughed.

“Handy? For what? No one speaks a different language. It’s only good for reading books.”

Sostrom hesitated, reluctant to contradict his crush. But Calruz just buffeted her with one arm. Gently, for him.

“Fool. Drathians have their own language. And to read any tome, no matter how old, is a valuable ability. You uncultured Izrilians.”

Ceria nodded absently as the words glowed faintly with purple light. She frowned, concentrating as she spoke.

“It is. But I’d prefer a real translator even so. The spell takes time, and it doesn’t work unless there are enough words to read at once. And I often get a muddled message, sometimes nonsensical depending on the content. There are better spells. But it should…oh.”

None of the other adventures saw anything change, but Ceria’s pulse began to quicken as the words on the wall—

They didn’t exactly change, but somehow she understood them. And she could put them into her own language. She turned to Olesm, eyes wide.

“I really don’t think this is a memorial for the dead.”

“What? What does it say?”

“I—it’s disturbing. Really disturbing.”

Calruz snorted. He glanced at Ceria’s face and barked.

“We are not mewling Human children. Speak.”

The half-Elf hesitated, and then she cleared her throat and began to read haltingly. The words she read were almost like a song and had the same cadence, the same innocent rhymes. Her words were swallowed by the darkness of the massive room.



“Skinner, Skinner!

He’ll eat your tails and tear off your skin!

He’ll pluck out your eyeballs and devour your kin!

Skinner, Skinner!

Run while you can!

Your flesh will be taken with a touch of his hand!

Hide in the darkness, hide in the light.

Fighting is useless; Skinner is fright.

He takes our scales and hides our bones

And makes this place our very last home.

Skinner, Skinner, never open his door.

Or soon your bones will lie on this floor.”



When she finished, there was only silence. Then one of the other adventurers laughed nervously, and someone else joined him. Their laughter echoed in the vast room and then faded away uneasily.

Gerial didn’t laugh. Neither did Calruz or most of the other adventurers. Ceria’s face was as pale as the light of her wand, and the glowing words faded again, letting darkness creep back.

Gerial’s voice cracked a bit as he spoke.

“That was disturbing, to say the least. But what does that mean?”

Sostrom hesitated as he stared at the words on the wall.

“It sounds…almost like a nursery rhyme. But not one I’d ever tell any child of mine.”

Olesm shivered.

“I’ve never heard that…that kind of song before. Who in their right minds would write such a thing?”

“It was a warning.”

Ceria whispered the words, and Calruz nodded. The Minotaur’s hand was twitching towards the handle of his battleaxe, and that made Gerial even more nervous. He tried to laugh it off, but couldn’t bring himself to smile.

“A warning? Who writes their warnings so—so cryptically?”

“Maybe someone who’s afraid of speaking plainly. Or—or—this isn’t a warning. Maybe it is a nursery rhyme or just dark humor. Or an old myth. The kind you write of something that’s been around forever.”

Sostrom shook his head.

“Who is this ‘Skinner’, then? An undead? Or a [Necromancer] of some kind? Whoever wrote this message seems to fear him.”

“Perhaps he’s the reason this place exists.”

Olesm frowned as he looked around the room. The other adventurers blinked at him, and he pointed to the tombs.

“This is clearly a burial place, but that’s odd because we Drakes don’t tend to bury our dead in stone. Too expensive. We usually cremate them. But that line…”

He stared upwards and murmured.

“‘He takes our scales and hides our bones…’. That can only be my people who wrote this. So—so they built coffins to hide their flesh from him? But is he locked away with the dead down here? That would make no sense. Why not burn the bodies? Surely they’d want to keep him as far away as possible.”

Sostrom raised a finger.

“A thought. Was this a trap for this Skinner creature or—or is he the guardian of this place?”

More silence. Gerial shivered. He felt cold, the uneasy chill of fear he’d felt on the most dangerous of missions. He opened his mouth, but another adventurer raised his voice.

“What the hell is a Skinner? Some kind of special undead?”

“We don’t know. But odds are that is what’s hiding behind that door Gregor and the others found. We should go back and let them know we’re in for a fight.”

Calruz nodded.

“Agreed. We will hold off opening them until we are prepared. And perhaps—”

He hesitated.

“—Perhaps we should send word to the surface. Ask if any know of this ‘Skinner’ creature.”

Ceria nodded. She felt relieved that he was the voice of reason, for once. She turned.

“Let’s hurry before Gregor makes a mistake. I’ll go f—”

It happened suddenly. Ceria screamed and dropped her wand, her hands flying to her head. Gerial drew his sword, but other adventurers around him were shouting or falling too. He looked around wildly, but nothing was attacking them.

Half of the Horns of Hammerad clutched at their heads. Ceria fell to her knees. Her [Dangersense] was going off, but it wasn’t like the ambush. That had been a premonition. Fear, foreboding, the knowledge of danger suddenly chilling her to her core.

This—

This was terror. This was death. She heard howling in her mind and knew she would die if she stayed. She—

“Ceria!”

Calruz’s massive hand shook her back into reality. She looked up at him. He yanked her upright with one hand.

“On your feet! What’s happening?”

“My [Dangersense]—something just happened! The doors—the vault—”

He cursed.

“They opened them? The fools!”

He began to storm down the corridor, but Ceria grabbed at him.

“Calruz! This isn’t like before. This—my Skill is telling me something bad has happened. Really bad. Far worse than the ambush.”

He stared at her, only partly comprehending. He couldn’t feel the certainty, the absolute terror in her head and heart. Olesm stumbled towards them, sword drawn.

“We are in danger. Extreme danger. We have to retreat.”

Olesm shakily wiped at his mouth. He’d thrown up. His tail thrashed wildly as he stared around in the darkness.

“I’ve never felt anything like that. When I was a child and the Necromancer attacked ten years back—that was the closest. But this is different. I am afraid, and [Dangersense] doesn’t convey fear. We have to go.”

The Necromancer himself? Gerial’s face turned paler. Calruz looked at Olesm a full five seconds before he turned.

“Let us regroup with Yvlon. With speed. [Warriors], form up, and mages, follow close behind. Prepare for—”

He broke off as Ceria grabbed his arm. The Minotaur stared down at her as she looked around.

“Shh! Quiet. Do you hear that?”

The other adventurers fell silent. It took them only a second to make out what Ceria had heard. In the distance, a high pitched sound. No—many sounds, all joined together.

“Screaming.”

It was faint, but echoed down the long corridor into this room. And as if that had started something, they heard another noise.

Cracking. Dull thumps sounding from behind them. Muffled moans and hissing. The adventurers turned.

Gerial’s hand turned white on his sword. He stared at the coffins in the room as, suddenly, noises began to echo from within.

“Oh…Flowers of Izril. Five Families preserve us.”

Half of the lids of the stone coffins shifted or crashed to the ground as their occupants suddenly began to move. The adventurers’ light didn’t illuminate all of the room, but they saw things crawling out of their stone beds, jerking upright, faint pinpricks of crimson light flaring into existence as they stared at the living.

Their moans and ghastly sounds filled the huge room, echoing, growing louder—then they screamed as they got up and began running towards the living.

“Run!”

Gerial wasn’t sure who said it. It could have been him. But every adventurer in the room was suddenly running for the door as hundreds of undead began pouring towards them.

“The door!”

Calruz caught Sostrom as the mage ran out the double doors. He pointed to the corridor.

“Can you slow them down?”

The bald man hesitated. He raised his staff.

“I—I could cast [Sticky Ground]. The webbing would slow them down, but this many—”

“Cast it! The rest of you, follow me!”

Calruz started running before the words had even left his mouth. Sostrom desperately raised his staff and cast the spell as the other adventurers sprinted down the corridor after Calruz. Suddenly, the lower levels were filled with sounds again, the clash of metal, surprised shouts from up ahead.

Screaming.

Sostrom caught up with Ceria, his longer legs pumping madly as he ran with his staff raised before him. He shouted wildly.

“We don’t have much time! Only a few minutes before they catch up!”

No one else said a word. They pounded down the corridor, and when they rounded a corridor, they saw a group of armed adventurers, around fourteen of them, led by Yvlon. They raised their weapons but lowered them when they saw who it was.

“Calruz!”

Yvlon waved the Minotaur over as he ran towards her. Her sword was drawn, and she had formed up her group into a solid line blocking the corridor down which Gregor had gone.

Calruz paused and pointed. Ceria and Gerial fell into line with the other adventurers, covering the way they had come as the Minotaur talked with Yvlon.

“What’s happening? Where are Gregor and the others?”

She shook her head.

“Last I heard, they were up ahead, trapping the corridor. But then our [Dangersense] went off and—the door. They must have opened it.”

“Fools!”

“They didn’t say they were going to open the vault. I made it clear to Gregor he had to wait until we regrouped. So why…?”

“Have you sent anyone down there?”

Calruz looked down the dark corridor, and Yvlon nodded.

“Two people. I told them to run back the instant they saw something. They—they never came back.”

She looked pale.

“The screaming ended a few minutes ago. I was waiting for you to get back. What did you find? Anything?”

He nodded.

“A message. Too long to explain. Know that we most likely face Skinner, the guardian of this place. He—steals skin.”

“Steals? Skin?”

The other adventurer shifted restlessly. Calruz nodded.

“So it was written. And his awakening woke the other undead too. There is a horde approaching from behind.”

The adventurers groaned as Yvlon frowned.

“Right then, it seems we have a choice. We can’t fight another battle here, not understrength. We should retreat.”

Calruz shook his head.

“What of Gregor and the others?”

Her face was grim.

“I think we should fear the worst, don’t you?”

Calruz gritted his teeth.

“I do not want to run without seeing the enemy’s face.”

“It’ll be the last thing you see if we stay here. If we get caught in a pincer attack from both sides—”

“Calruz.”

The Minotaur ignored Ceria. He gestured to the corridor back where they had come.

“Set spells to slow the enemy advance. I will go to see if there are any living before we fall back. If we leave our comrades—”

“Calruz!”

Both Captains looked over. Ceria was cupping one pointed ear with her hand. She raised her wand shakily and pointed into the darkness ahead.

“I hear something. Something is coming this way.”

They fell silent and then heard it too. Pounding footsteps.

Sostrom raised his staff, but hesitated as he saw an adventurer run out of the darkness. It was one man, someone he recognized. A warrior from Kyrial’s Vanguard. The man wasn’t carrying a weapon, though. He was wild-eyed and running as if chased by a legion of monsters. But nothing was following him.

Gerial stood up and caught the man as he ran towards the adventurers. He would have bowled over their front line, and he tried to dodge around Gerial as the other man grabbed at him.

“Hey, what’s happening? Where are Gregor and—”

The other warrior struck at Gerial with a gauntleted fist. Gerial stumbled back, and the man tried to run past him. Calruz seized him and pinned him against a wall.

“You! How dare you?”

The man stared up wild-eyed into Calruz’s furious gaze. He didn’t even seem to see the Minotaur. He twisted wildly in Calruz’s grip, fighting to be free.

“Let go of me! Let go! I have to get away!”

Yvlon stared down the corridor, staring into the darkness.

“What happened? What was behind those doors?”

The man spat and fought against Calruz, futilely kicking to be free. He seemed barely conscious as he babbled almost incoherently.

“Run, run! It’s right behind us!”

“What is?”

Calruz gripped the man even harder until Gerial could swear he heard the other man’s bones creak. The Minotaur raised his voice.

“Why were the doors opened? Gregor was told to wait! Who—”

“We didn’t open the doors!”

The Minotaur stared at the man. He was panting, sweating, his eyes darting around as he strained towards freedom.

“If you did not open them, then who—”

“It opened them from inside!”

The man shouted it in the corridor, his voice echoing as he screamed.

“It opened them, and then it took Gregor and the others! Let me go. It is coming. We must run, all of us. Can’t you feel it? It is coming!”

“Who is? Skinner? Is it an undead?”

But the man refused to reply. His foot came up, and he kicked Calruz hard enough to make the Minotaur grunt and stumble back. He dropped the warrior, and the man scrambled to his feet. He burst through the ranks of adventurers, dashing down the corridor, his footsteps echoing and fading as he fled towards the stairs.

Calruz cursed as he rubbed at his stomach. He looked at Yvlon, and the two Captains paused.

“They’re dead. But what caught them? This Skinner—”

“We should retreat. Let us gather the wounded and go. If we have the [Mages] cast spells to delay pursuit—”

Yvlon nodded. She turned and raised her voice to order the adventurers, but the words died in her throat.

Something. Somehow, as they had listened to the panicked adventurer screaming, they hadn’t heard it. It was such a faint sound. A sort of…dragging, scraping sound. It had been growing louder slowly. And it wouldn’t have mattered. But now it had come closer, and—something—had appeared far down the corridor.

The light cast from wands, staves, flickering torches, and lanterns illuminated perhaps a hundred feet of space of the wide, empty stone passageway. At the very edges of that light, something had appeared.

Something white. It was so far away, but it filled the corridor. It looked like—a cloud? Or fog, rippling slowly towards them out of the darkness. A wall of white that moved.

But that wasn’t what caught Yvlon’s voice in her throat. It was the faint thing she could see in the middle of that unearthly cloud, the familiar shape that appeared in the darkness, staring at her.

A face.

“Gregor…?”

He didn’t react to Yvlon’s voice. The Captain of Kyrial’s Vanguard stared ahead blankly, his face shifting in the mists, pale and bloodless. And his head—it was moving in ways a head shouldn’t, not if it were attached to a body.

The white sea surrounding him rippled closer, but now the adventurers could see another face slowly float upwards. Cervial. He stared ahead, gaze empty and vacant, moving in the same disturbing way as Gregor.

“Cervial! Is that you?”

Again, no response.

Closer. Now the mists didn’t seem as transparent. It wasn’t mist, but something else. Something that rippled and shook as it was pulled along the corridor. Undulating, shivering…too solid. Ceria’s [Dangersense] was screaming so loud she covered her pointed ears. It came on. Closer.

“Gregor, Cervial! Answer me! What’s going on? Are you alright?”

Neither face moved. Neither head twitched. The adventurers watched Gregor stare ahead, eyes unseeing.

Then they knew. They knew what had happened. As Menes’ head emerged from the folds of the creature in front of them and it pulled itself into the light, they understood what they were seeing.

Flesh. Dead flesh. It rippled, shook, twisted, shining in the light. It was yellowed in places, fleshy pink in others, bloody in spots. But mainly white. White with age and bloodless death. It was dead skin, layered and congealed.

It was a body. And the faces of their friends, the Captains—

They were part of it.

Not just their faces. Their skin. As the creature drew closer, several men and women gagged or vomited in place. This—thing was made up of bodies. Entire bodies, skinned. Torn from their owners and pasted together.

And what it made was a long, bloated slug-like body that reared upright. Two massive arms reached out and seized at the ground, dragging the rest of the body behind it. There was no head. Rather, a sunken face, a mockery of the Human face. No nose. No ears or hair. Just two sunken sockets filled with a crimson glow and a gaping, empty mouth.

Pieces of white flesh trailed behind the creature as it pulled itself forwards another ten meters with its hands. It was falling apart, leaving bits of itself where it went. But it was massive, hands wide enough to curl around any Human, long, almost delicate fingers of slick, white flesh, exposed along the palms where red flesh could be seen underneath.

Something. Something was living in the body of dead skin. And it was coming. The creature slowly moved towards the adventurers, pulling itself along the ground as the faces of their comrades—all of them—stared blankly ahead, the latest additions to its skin.

Because that was what it was. And Ceria knew. She knew as it stared down at her and she felt death in her bones.

She knew its name.

Skinner.



——



He came towards them, slow, dragging himself along with one arm as he travelled down the corridor. He had no legs. He was just a torso, a disfigured mockery of something Human. Not even that.

He wasn’t even remotely humanoid. Unlike the Crypt Lords who looked like bloated, twisted mockeries of something once living, Skinner just looked dead.

Scraps of ruined metal hung off the thing. Dangling from worn material. A…breastplate? Had something once made armor for this—this thing? Or had it stolen the armor of a Giant? It was far too large and torn apart. All that was left was yellowed skin—and fresh additions.

Ceria knew she should move. She knew she should raise her wand and start blasting at the creature now it had appeared. She should rain fire upon it with the others, eradicate it from the face of the earth. It was in front of her.

But she couldn’t move. She couldn’t raise her wand. She was petrified.

Two ruby eyes flashed deep within the folds of dried, caked skin. They didn’t move, not like normal eyes. Skinner had to twist and turn his head to see with them, but the light they cast created a cone of—of—

Terror.

It had struck her the instant he had appeared down the corridor. Something had reached inside her, taken hold of her heart. She shook as he approached, and she was unable to move.

“It’s just…dead skin.”

Yvlon muttered it. Ceria had to turn her head to see. The woman was trembling, hand gripped on her sword. She was trying to raise it, but she couldn’t.

Fear.

“We’re under a spell.”

Ceria said it through numb lips. She tried to gather mana inside of her, fight off the magic, but it was too strong. Terror was consuming all of her. She couldn’t even think of resisting. All she wanted to do was run.

But she was too afraid to do even that.

It was like the nightmares Ceria had had as a child, in between waking and sleep, at midnight. She would be in her bed, staring at a door, a window. She knew something was behind it, that something was watching her. She knew, but she was too afraid to get up and see. If she moved—if she made any motion—it would get her.

So she would lie still, and eventually she would fall asleep or morning would come. Her night terrors would disappear in the light of day.

But this was different. This was horror made flesh, and it wouldn’t disappear. But like her childhood fears, Ceria was trapped. She couldn’t move.

“Horns of Hammerad—”

Calruz’s voice choked in their silence. She saw him raise a foot and struggle to step forwards. Even the Minotaur, even her fearless leader, was paralyzed.

“We must—retreat.”

Olesm said that. He was trying to shift backwards, but even escape was difficult. They were paralyzed.

Skinner pulled himself closer. Too close. He was in front of them now, and they smelled him. Dead flesh. Blood, too. Blood and death and rot. It was horrific.

His eyes gazed down on them, bringing fear. Calruz tried to raise his axe, but his arms shook. Skinner’s mouth opened.

He smiled.

A hand shot out. A woman in the front—a warrior with an axe and shield—screamed in sudden terror. It brought the other adventurers out of their paralysis. They scattered as Skinner encircled her with one hand and then pulled.

Her skin came off. All at once. It left—it left a bloody body that fell to the ground. Possibly dead. Or worse—alive.

The woman’s skin flapped and trembled in Skinner’s hand. He reached up and laid it delicately across one arm. Her skin…melted into his flesh, and suddenly, there she was. Her empty face stared down at the others.

They fled. Their terror hadn’t ended, just shifted. Instead, the seasoned Silver-rank adventurers dropped their weapons and ran, pushing, shoving, trying to get away.

But as they turned to flee in the other direction, they found they were not alone. Bodies stood in the way, blocking the corridor. Dead bodies.

Zombies. Skeletons. Ghouls. Even more Crypt Lords and Wights. The undead had reappeared, and they had cut the adventurers off from escape. They fell upon the adventurers silently, grabbing them, biting them, pushing them back towards Skinner.

“Retreat!”

Calruz bellowed as he gripped his battleaxe in shaking hands and decapitated a zombie. Ceria moved. She raised her wand slowly and fired a spike of ice at one of the dead as her feet took her backwards.

She could move. She and Gerial ran back down the corridor with the other adventurers, knocking away the undead. She could fight. But the instant she turned towards Skinner or even thought of raising her wand to fight him—

Paralysis. Fear. She couldn’t. She couldn’t. All she could do was run. She had to get away. She had to get away.

The adventurers screamed and ran down the corridor, some tripping, some fighting with the undead or dragged backwards. Skinner seized a mage who screamed for help, but no one turned for him.

They ran. But they stopped when they saw the wall of undead warriors blocking the way back up to the surface. They waited, the dead body of the warrior who had fled earlier crushed against one wall, his brains pasted on the stone.

“We must run.”

“We must fight.”

Yvlon and Calruz spoke at the same time. She was trembling, but he had stopped. His head was turned. He was looking back towards Skinner.

Ceria didn’t want to look. She wanted to run, but Calruz had stopped. He raised his voice, not shouting, but speaking loudly, his voice echoing in the silence.

“Horns of Hammerad. If you have any pride, turn and face your enemy.”

She didn’t want to. But she had to. Just to know how close it was. Ceria turned—

And saw Sostrom.

He dangled from Skinner’s hands. Or part of him did. His skin had been taken and had become part of Skinner’s body. The monster cast aside what remained.

He had screamed for help. But Ceria had ignored him. He had screamed for help. And now he was dead.

Ceria saw it. She saw it, but her eyes fled from Skinner. She shook, unable to look at him. He was advancing slowly, taking his time as the undead boxed the other adventurers in. She—Sostrom was dead. But she had to run.

Her feet moved back. But a pair of huge boots stomped forwards.

Calruz took one step and then two. He moved haltingly—his body leaning forwards as if he were struggling against something. But he moved towards Skinner, and he spoke.

“Do not run. You are the Horns of Hammerad. This thing has slain our own. We must avenge—”

“Calruz. We have to go. Help us.”

Ceria breathed the words. The Minotaur shook his head.

“Honor. We must not run. Face your death with pride.”

He hefted his battleaxe. Skinner paused, staring down the corridor at the only adventurer not running from him. He seemed…intrigued, as far as his expressionless face could be. He raised a hand.

“I am Calruz of the Beriad. I challenge you.”

The Minotaur raised his axe. He dodged under one of Skinner’s hands as it shot towards him and raced towards the body. He brought his weapon up and sliced at Skinner’s chest.

The battleaxe bit deep into flesh. Calruz roared as he tore it through the dead skin, and for a moment, Ceria dared hope. The adventurers paused in their fighting, and so did the dead, staring at Skinner.

Calruz severed the chunk of Skinner he’d carved away, and it fell to the ground. Skinner blinked down at it. It was—

It was dead skin. Calruz stared into the gaping wound he’d left. Dead skin was all he saw. Just dead skin. No blood. Not even any organs or bones. Just dead skin, layered to create armor. How deep did it run? Skinner was so vast—

He raised his axe again, and it bit deep. But he struck nothing but skin. And above him, the monster moved.

A massive hand swung towards Calruz. The Minotaur had lodged his axe in the skin, and he had to roll and abandon it. He dodged sideways, but too slowly. Too late.

Skinner turned and seized Calruz’s arm with one of its hands. It twisted, and the Minotaur screamed and fell back. The monster tossed his arm to the ground dismissively, and his mouth moved. The layers of flesh wrinkled up, and that vacant mouth twisted at the corners.

Skinner grinned.

Ceria screamed as Calruz stumbled away, one of his shoulders suddenly a bleeding stump. He roared in pain, fury, and fear. He raised his hand to strike at Skinner, but something caught him from behind.

A zombie. The dead Drake grabbed Calruz by the legs. He turned and kicked, and it fell to the ground, skull fractured. But a skeleton tackled him, grabbing onto his arm, and then more zombies seized him. Calruz threw them aside, pounding, fighting, but they engulfed him.

He disappeared under a swarm of bodies, roaring in agony as their claws and blades tore at his flesh. The darkness swallowed the Minotaur as Skinner turned towards Ceria.

She trembled. She was fixed in place as the crimson eyes fixed on her. She wanted to run. She needed to run. But fear kept her in place.

A skeleton drew near, grinning, a sword in its hands. It raised the blade, and Gerial slammed into the skeleton, knocking it to the floor.

“Ceria!”

He shouted at her, shielding her with his back from Skinner’s gaze. She could suddenly move again, and she gasped and shuddered as he pushed her back.

Gerial held Ceria as she clutched at him, his head swiveling around at the dead fighting the living, the adventurers still screaming and trying to escape. His arms tightened, and he held her close. He spoke to her, his voice the only thing she could hear above the roaring in her ears.

“Go. Run.”

“What?”

Ceria stared at him. Gerial’s face was white, and he looked almost as bloodless as Skinner’s body. He shuddered, and she felt it.

“Run. I’ll—I’ll buy you some time.”

He pointed down the corridor. Ceria’s feet began to move, but she halted them.

“Gerial—”

He shoved her away.

“Run, damn you!”

He turned and walked down the corridor towards Skinner. He couldn’t look at it, and his legs shook. They stopped fifteen feet from Skinner. Gerial couldn’t move any closer.

Again, Skinner halted and stared at him with interest. Gerial tried to raise his sword, but he couldn’t. Terror gripped him, and he couldn’t even lift his weapon.

It wasn’t fair. But he heard and felt Ceria turn and flee behind him. That was enough. That was—

He raised the other object in his right hand. A jar of acid sloshed around in his gauntleted hand. Maybe. If he could get Skinner to turn back, maybe—

He was going to die. Gerial knew it. The undead surrounded him, not attacking. The adventurers were running or dead, but the dead waited for Skinner to take him. He had to buy time. To let her live. To let one of them survive.

“Death before dishonor.”

The words were enough to make him look up, to meet that terrifying gaze. Skinner smiled at him, and Gerial’s heart stopped. The hand came down, and he raised his arm, drew it back to throw the jar.

But he hesitated. The fear made his arm spasm, and the jar of acid broke on the ground in front of Skinner, showering only the monster’s lower half with acid.

Skinner lurched back. The skin began to smoke and peel away, but the creature didn’t let the acid consume any more. He reached down and peeled off several layers of his own body, digging his hand into the white skin and hurling the smoking bits to the ground where they were consumed.

Fool. If he’d only thrown it better. If—

The acid was fading. Even if he’d had another jar, even if his aim had been true…

Gerial stared numbly at the dead flesh. He raised his sword, but Skinner lashed out with one finger, and the weapon went flying. Gerial’s hand broke with the impact. He felt the pain, a dull shock running through him, but it was just a feeling.

The man reached for his belt dagger with his other hand, but the darkness was closing in and—

A pale wall of glistening flesh rose. Higher and higher. Two eyes deeper red than blood looked down at him. Gerial looked up bitterly. Skinner loomed over him. It was no longer smiling, at least. Ceria. Had she run? Had she made it?

Why here? The man spoke, his voice breaking, laden with guilt and regret. With fear. Yet here he stood.

“If—”

A hand seized him, and Gerial felt tearing—and then coldness.

He was gone before he hit the floor.



——



Ceria saw Gerial die. She stopped in the corridor and screamed. He fell to the ground as Skinner carefully took his skin. The creature placed it where acid had struck him and then continued on as if nothing had happened.

She had to run. But something in Ceria was screaming louder than the fear. Sostrom. Calruz. Gerial. Her friends were dead. Her family was dying.

She faced Skinner, her body shaking. Ceria couldn’t even stare into his face. He laughed at her, soundlessly, crumbling lips revealing a body that was hollow. He was just skin. Skin and something red that twisted through the dead body, giving it life.

She couldn’t raise her wand. Fear consumed every part of her. Ceria howled in despair and fled. It was the only thing she could do. She left her friend behind and ran.

Live. She would die if she faced Skinner. She had to live.

A hand shot out and seized her by the leg. Ceria screamed as the skin along the back of her leg tore.

Her skin curled as Skinner regarded it in one hand. He brought it up to his ‘mouth’ as if tasting it and then tossed the bit of flesh away. And he took no notice of Ceria either. Skinner turned and began to drag himself along the ground, after the Humans.

For a moment, Ceria lay on the ground, disbelieving. But then she saw the dead moving towards her, and reality came back with the pain.

She got up. Her leg—she could move. But only just. Ceria limped and pulled herself along the corridor. The undead were around her, striking at adventurers as they cowered or chasing those that fled.

It was chaos. Ceria raised her wand and blasted a skeleton out of her path. She was close to the room with the injured but—

Yvlon was ahead of her, part of the scrum of adventurers screaming and fighting to get past two Crypt Lords. The massive abominations blocked the passage, smashing adventurers against the walls and crushing them with contemptuous ease.

There was no attempt to fight as a group. Men and women shoved each other, striking even their friends as they sought to escape. Skinner slowly dragged himself down the corridor, ripping the Humans apart as they screamed in terror.

The Captain of the Silver Spears was shouting, trying to be heard above the din. She was gripped by terror like the others, but she was at least coherent enough to try and fight the Crypt Lords. But no one was listening to her.

The undead were everywhere. They flooded out of the tunnels, biting, clawing, tearing. Ceria screamed as a skeleton stabbed her in the back with a dagger. Again, her robes saved her, but she felt the skin break even as the blade slashed at her.

It stabbed her in the leg. Ceria screamed as she felt her exposed sinews tear and her bones crack.

She raised her wand and this time burned it. The skeleton staggered away as its bones cracked from the heat. Ceria pulled herself upright. The pain was overwhelming, but if she stopped to consider it, she would die.

The Crypt Lords barred the way, but there were gaps between their bloated bodies. Enough for her to get through. She could run. She could use the other adventurers as a shield so long as Skinner ignored her. If Ceria sacrificed them, she could—

Yvlon was fighting. Her blonde hair was dirty with blood, but she whirled, cutting down Ghouls and zombies as she struggled to protect her friends. She was trying to carve a path open before Skinner reached them. But the Crypt Lords were too strong, the adventurers too disorganized.

They would all die. Ceria looked at Skinner, and her mouth opened. She couldn’t raise her wand despite it all. The magic was too strong. She was too afraid. She cursed herself for that.

But the others—Gerial’s face swam in front of Ceria. She closed her eyes.

“Death before dishonor.”

Ceria snapped her wand. She had to break it over her good knee, but when she did, the magic burst out. Cold, endless cold instantly covered the walls and floor around her with frost, and the undead trying to attack her froze. But Ceria took the magic and used it.

A spell.

Yvlon turned, her sword raised just in time to see Ceria point. The half-Elf was standing down the corridor, behind Skinner, but she aimed at the Crypt Lord closest to Yvlon. Her finger glowed with white-blue light, and a blizzard had appeared around her.

The female adventurer dove to the floor as a spike of ice twice as long and wide as a Human fired down the passage. It struck the Crypt Lord in the chest and continued down the passage, shattering into shards against a wall. The undead, and even adventurers unlucky enough to be caught in the way, fell to the ground, frozen. Or dead.

The lower half of the Crypt Lord fell down, and adventurers scrambled through the opening. The other Crypt Lord seized two men, but other adventurers darted past, pursued by the faster undead.

Ceria nearly blacked out as the magical backlash struck her. She would have screamed, but the pain was just one more layer in her agony. But the coldness she had channeled struck her as well. The hand she had used for the spell was already numb, but now she could no longer move it.

Her hand froze. Her skin began to peel away and turned black in places. She fell to her knees as Yvlon turned.

Fifteen feet. An eternity of space. That was what separated the two. But the dead were running, and Skinner followed, snatching lives away. Yvlon wavered for a second, and her eyes met Ceria’s.

Their gazes met for a long second, and then the Captain of the Silver Spears tore herself away. She kept running, and the dead surged after her.

Most of them. Skinner ignored the half-Elf, but others were drawn to her. She got to her feet and began to run as a few undead broke off to chase her.

Down the hallway, to the right. Through the maze of corridors she’d explored. Ceria ran, dodging flailing arms and gaping jaws, knowing there was no escape.

She tripped and fell down as she reached the place where she had read Skinner’s message. Ceria tried to get up and realized she hadn’t tripped. Her broken leg had stopped moving.

This was it. She scrambled to get up, pushing at the ground with her one good arm and leg. She leaned against one wall, feeling something important draining from her.

A shape appeared out of the darkness. A Ghoul bounded down the corridor, glowing yellow eyes fixed on Ceria. It had been female, once. It stared at Ceria, grinning with jagged teeth.

Ceria drew her dagger. It was heavy in her shaking right hand.

The Ghoul drew closer, feinting, dodging around Ceria to get at her back. She staggered, trying to keep it in front of her.

Ceria felt hollow. Empty. She was crying. She was sobbing. She wished—

She wished it hadn’t happened. Any of it. But it was too late now.

The Ghoul slashed at her, drawing blood, dodging back. It was about to go for the kill.

Tears fell from her eyes, but Ceria blinked them away. She lunged, and her dagger caught the Ghoul in the cheek. It thrashed, ripping her blade out of her hand, and then its teeth were biting, tearing at her ear, her flesh.

Ceria reached out her hand, but there was no one to take it. Cold. Calruz. Gerial. Had they done anything? She wished she had stayed with them. Too late, now.

Ceria closed her eyes and waited for the end. It came with sharp teeth to take her away from the pain. And then she was gone.



——



The darkness covered the ruins as the orbs of light cast by Ceria’s [Illumination] spell went out one at a time as Skinner passed by. Like lives, winking out one by one as the darkness moved upwards. The thing that stole flesh and hunted the living raised its head towards the surface, and the dead followed, clustering, hungering. They streamed out of the catacombs, through tunnels and secret passages, running, crawling towards the surface.

Above.

And Skinner began to move upwards. It—he—had harvested enough flesh. Now he would take the rest. He left the ruins and left behind only death.

Death.

And silence.





1.60


Erin sat in her inn, staring at the table. She didn’t have anything better to do. Normally, she served customers, chatted, or played chess, but she couldn’t today.

They were all gone. Pawn had left for the city with the other Workers, promising to come back tomorrow.

He—still couldn’t move right. But the other Workers helped him walk and move and—

“Something’s different about him.”

Toren looked up from his table at Erin. He paused, waiting for an instruction, and then went back to scrubbing.

“I mean, he seems different. He acts different. More confident, y’know?”

Toren carefully picked up a small beetle that had wandered into the building and squished it between his fingers.

“Ew! Don’t do that! Just get rid of them outside!”

Obediently, the skeleton walked out the door. Erin tried not to let her stomach remember the sight of the orange insides of the insect oozing—

“Not many bugs around. But it’s winter. Apparently.”

It wasn’t very cold. Toren opened the door and walked back in, fingers clean, but Erin barely shivered.

“Am I near the equator?”

The skeleton shrugged at her. At least that was something. He generally didn’t respond to questions aimed at him, but he was far more useful than he had been.

Erin leaned over the table. She had no one else to talk to, and at least Toren looked confused when she spoke, which was better than nothing.

“It was the chess. Pawn was totally on the offense this morning! Did you notice that? He was better—I mean, he’s still learning, but he’s taking chances. I can’t wait to see what happens if he and Rags play a game. It’s like he had a massive confidence boost or something. Do you think it was what happened with Ksmvr?”

Toren stared at Erin and then picked up the rag and dipped it into the bucket. Erin sighed. She leaned back in her chair, wondering how much it would hurt if she fell over. It would hurt more if Toren dove to catch her like he had twice before. Landing on floorboards? Ouch. Landing on bony skeleton bits? Double ouch.

Erin closed her eyes, and then her eyes opened wide. She lost her balance and tipped forwards, smacking her face on the table. But she didn’t even process that.

An alarm. It sounded—no, it felt like a tornado warning siren blasting in her head at full volume. But that wasn’t sound, it was the feeling, a high-pitched whine that told her she was in danger.

Erin looked around. Toren stared at her, holding the dripping rag in one hand. Erin knocked her chair over as she ran into the kitchen and grabbed the frying pan and a jar of acid. Toren looked up and dropped the rag when he saw Erin was armed.

“Something’s out there.”

He immediately dashed into the kitchen and came out with the sword he’d taken from one of the adventurers Erin had kicked out of her inn. Erin knelt next to one of the tables, heart beating out of her chest. The alarm was still going off in her head, and she felt scared.

Toren was behind her. He lifted the sword as he peered around the inn. He stared at Erin expectantly and pointed to the door.

“I don’t know where it is. But there’s something. Something bad.”

It didn’t sound like something was outside. Erin opened the door cautiously and peered out. She gestured, and Toren ran upstairs and returned in a few moments, shaking his head. She looked out her windows and then threw caution to the wind.

She ran outside, standing at the top of the hill, staring around at the grasslands. The sun was setting on those colorful swathes of grass, and the looming mountains cast long, ominous shadows. At night, soon, only the distant city would be a glowing dot on the horizon if you knew where to look. Erin’s eyes roamed for something—anything—spiders, Rock Crabs, moving in the long grass valleys and hills.

But she saw nothing. She ran around the other side of the inn and stared in the other direction. Then she had Toren boost her up and stared from the top of the roof.

After a while, Erin jumped down, and Toren collapsed as he tried to catch her.

“Ow! Get out of the way next time!”

He helped her up, and Erin stared around the empty grasslands. Nothing. The sun was still lowering in the sky, and it wasn’t even night yet. She couldn’t see anything. But she had felt it, with a certainty that didn’t go away.

“What was that, then?”

For ten more minutes, Erin walked around, listening hard, eyes scanning the horizon. But she couldn’t see anything. And being out in the open was starting to bother her more than anything else.

Perhaps—perhaps it was a false alarm? Or whatever was happening was far away. Like…

“Maybe someone dropped a nuke? Or a magical nuke?”

Erin shook her head as Toren stared at her. No good.

“It might be nothing. Just—keep an eye out, okay?”

He nodded. Erin sighed and shook her head. She went back into her inn. But she kept the frying pan, the jar of acid, and one of the kitchen knives on the table.

Just in case.



——



Miles northwest of the inn, the dead poured out of the ruins on the hillside. They were howling—screaming through broken lungs, shrieking with voices no mortal, living creature could make. They ran through the grass, the evening sun at their backs. Zombies charged towards the city, arms outstretched, eyes glowing as they hunted for the living.

Ghouls bounded past them, leaping ten feet at a time, while massive Crypt Lords lumbered behind them, trampling lesser undead under their bodies. All of them—pale Wights, skeletons marching in ranks—moved with one purpose. To the city. To find the living.

To add them to their ranks.

The small shantytown that had sprung up around the ruins was gone. Broken timber and dead bodies were all that remained of the adventurers and merchants that had lived there. They had been cut down trying to flee in the first few minutes of the attack.

So many dead. The [Guard] unit had lasted ten seconds, maybe more. Brave Drakes and Gnolls had tried to hold ranks at the entrance of the tunnel—then realized the undead had no end.

It wasn’t hundreds, it was thousands. And they moved so fast—zombies should not run like that, not sprint.

This wasn’t just a horde of random undead monsters that had come together, or even a group under the control of a Lich or Crypt Lord. This was an invasion led by a single creature.

Skinner dragged itself across the earth, preternaturally fast. So quick it outpaced the Crypt Lords, arms churning through the dirt. It moved its grotesque body at the speed a horse could run.

Impossible. But each arm was so strong it churned up the soil—and its eyes glowed red. A crimson glow that made every undead it gazed upon move even faster.

Liscor had seen the camp-lights around the ruins go dark. Even before Skinner appeared, they had heard the screams. The [Guards] knew what to do, and their task was simple.

Close the gates. Liscor’s were solid metal, impenetrable to even the smallest gnats. They were poised to close them—until someone shouted.

“Survivors! They’re coming! Hold the gates! Hold the gates!”

Desperate people were running ahead of the monsters, screaming, begging for entry. The Watch Sergeant on duty froze. The right thing to do was close the gates—but they could slam shut the steel doors in a moment.

“Hold the doors!”

A woman in silver armor collapsed as she ran through with the surviving [Guards], adventurers, and a dozen other people who’d outrun the horde. A Drake raced over to her and recoiled.

Her face—

“Get them to safety! Gates down! Move, move! Call the Watch Captain! Summon Klbkch—summon the Prognugator! Where’s Olesm? Raise the alarm!”

The Watch Sergeant shouted as the bells began to ring. The city was coming alive, and people in the streets looked up and began to ask what was happening. He waited for the gates to close—and after fifteen beats of his heart, realized something was wrong.

“Close the gates! Close—”

The Drake ran down the wall and then saw a crimson light glowing in the distance. He stumbled to a halt, fell to his knees—and froze there, trembling.

The gates! He knew they were open. Heard the undead drawing nearer, but something froze him. Froze the [Guards]—locked their trembling hands into place. It came from that thing, that malformed piece of flesh with staring gemstone eyes.

Magic—the Watch Sergeant saw his arms spasming wildly as he tried to move. And he couldn’t. Something was freezing his muscles.

[Terror]. A spell. He looked up and whispered.

“C-close…the…”

The gates had begun to move downwards when the undead first appeared, ready to slam. But they halted as the guards manning the gates suddenly threw down their weapons and ran, screaming. The Watch Sergeant tried to fight the pure fear welling up in his chest—and then his body took over. He ran.

And the gates to Liscor lay open. Skinner pointed a thousand undead towards the gates, and they surged towards it. Then the screaming grew louder. The walls of Liscor could have held an army at bay. But without the gates—



——



Was it smiling? Did it smile? Was it…alive? Did it think?

It surely did. The thing was moving the undead around like some kind of Chieftain. As if it knew how to fight.

See? Zombies in front, Ghouls leaping in packs along the side. It put the skeletons in ranks behind the first undead, Crypt Lords interspersed in vanguards. It even made those with bows stand and advance in the rear-guard, around it.

Someone was watching the undead pouring towards Liscor. And as if Skinner realized it was being watched, it turned slightly away from the Watch fleeing the walls in fear.

Skinner’s eyes shifted away from the gates, and Rags ducked down and pulled the Goblin next to her into the grass. She and her followers flattened themselves into the earth, making themselves as small as possible.

Fear touched them, making their hearts pound wildly. It was a familiar thing. The Goblins peeked out of the grass while Rags whisper-shouted insults at them and made them keep their heads down.

Only after a few minutes did they dare look again. Far below, the creature known as Skinner had focused its attention back on the city. The undead were already through the gates, and they could hear screaming even from this distance.

From their hilltop, the group of armed Goblins watched the carnage. Rags touched the sheathed short sword at her side, but only to make sure it was there. She had no intention of moving from this spot.

Skinner was moving slowly, now. He paused at the open gates in a throng of undead, guarding his safety. The northern gates were engulfed in fighting, but Skinner was flanking, sending more undead to the east to flood in through two points. This control of the undead was being done from the back ranks, Skinner out of range of most arrows and spells. But he was the most dangerous thing down there by far, Rags was sure.

She saw the twisted, grotesque thing made of dead flesh twist its head towards her again and immediately crouched to hide in the grass. The Goblins around her shivered and held their weapons more firmly. Rags shook her head as she watched Skinner slowly drag itself towards the city.

It was intelligent. And it was deadly. She knew it in her bones. But more deadly than the city full of Drakes and Gnolls?

There were many, many people in the city. She had once tried to guess with her sticks. If ten blades of grass was a stick, and ten sticks became a rock…

A rock was a hundred. A number Pisces had taught her. Then ten rocks became…a chess piece. A thousand.

There would be a hundred chess pieces’ worth of people in the city. A hundred thousand. But some were small like Rags, and some didn’t have weapons. Skinner had just led thirty-six chess pieces’ worth of monsters into the city.

Thirty-six thousand monsters, each one moving like pieces under its will. And there were no walls and a lot of bodies for it to add to its forces. Then Rags understood. Each dead Drake was another blade of grass for Skinner’s forces. Each Gnoll…a new zombie. She sat on the hill and watched as death poured into Liscor. Watching. Waiting.

Calculating.

After a few minutes, her belly rumbled.



——



“Hm. Rags should be here by now.”

Erin checked the position of the sun in the sky, shading her eyes as Toren laid out plates and utensils. Well, one utensil to be specific. All Goblins needed was a fork, and that was only because Erin insisted.

She’d cooked a fine meal of pasta and sausage, or perhaps it was sausage and pasta. Goblins liked meat, so she’d made the pot mostly that with some spiral noodles thrown in just to add color.

Erin hesitated. The food was warm, but she didn’t want to eat alone—or with Toren as the case may be. She could wait. Besides, Rags and her crew never missed a meal. They were probably running from Rock Crabs or attacking helpless travellers. She should really talk to them about that.

Still. Erin glanced towards the window. It would be night in an hour or less. And the Goblins quite sensibly hated travelling at night.

“Do you think she forgot?”

Toren shrugged. He raised his head and stared in the direction of Liscor. He felt…something. A voice? A calling. But it was faint. He shrugged and continued setting the table. But Erin’s earlier warning…the skeleton looked up, and he felt the tug in the distance.

That decided him. The skeleton picked up a fork and eyed the tines, wishing they were sharper. Erin was right.

Something was out there.



——



“Close the gates!”

The streets of Liscor were filled with the dead. Civilians screamed and fled or barricaded themselves in their homes as zombies, skeletons, and other lurching forms ran through the streets. But the undead ran up against a wall of blades before they made it far down the streets.

The City Watch stood shoulder-to-shoulder, firing arrows into the crowd while armed Gnolls and Drakes held the front ranks back. The Captain of the Watch, the tall Drake named Zevara, shouted up towards the walls as she cut down another zombie.

“Where the hell are the other guards? Why aren’t those gates closing?”

She bellowed as she chopped down on a skeleton’s arm, severing the bones. The guardsmen in front of her closed ranks and threw the undead back. A Gnoll ran towards Zevara, and she turned towards him.

“Tkrn. What’s happening out there?”

He grinned desperately, the fur on his chest matted with blood and gore.

“Fighting, Captain. We’ve closed off the streets like you said. That’s stopping them, but there are larger creatures out there.”

“Crypt Lords. They’re extremely dangerous. Shoot them down if you can. But what about the southern gates? If they’ve fallen—”

Tkrn shook his head, and Zevara shielded her face as bits of flesh flew everywhere.

“Sorry, Captain. The southern gates are closed, and we’ve got [Archers] shooting down any undead that try to climb up. But all our guards on the north and eastern walls have fled!”

“That doesn’t make sense. I saw those gates closing! What could have…?”

A zombie shoved aside a Drake and lunged for Zevara, jaw gaping wide. She stepped back, and Tkrn’s hand axe buried itself in its exposed brain.

“Close ranks!”

Zevara’s voice cracked like a whip, and the guards around her flinched. She pointed, and more warriors ran forwards to fill in the weak spot in the line. Not all of the Watch was fighting. Zevara had kept several groups back, spread around the city to fill in weak spots.

Now she raised her voice as more undead ran down the streets and hit the ranks of armed warriors hard.

“Are you Human cowards or guardsmen? Put your tails into it!”

The Drakes and Gnolls heard her and answered with a roar. They pushed the undead back several feet, and Zevara turned back to Tkrn as he wiped the hand axe on his fur.

“What else?”

His face was pale under his fur, but the younger [Guard] pointed back the way he’d come.

“The adventurers are asking what they can do. They’re fighting with our people—but poorly. There aren’t many good teams around. My people have bows. They’re shooting from the rooftops!”

“Have them pick off any stragglers that break through. We’ll hold the line here and push forwards. Now, where’s Relc?”

“He’s holding them off down Tesseract Street.”

Zevara grunted.

“Good. They won’t get through that way, then. But this is insane.”

She pointed to the massive gates, visible from where she and Tkrn stood.

“We shouldn’t be fighting in the streets! If we can get close to those gates and close them, these undead will die outside the city. Why the hell are they still open?”

Someone else growled.

“Many of those large things are standing next to the entrance. We cannot kill them, and more keep coming.”

“Crypt Lords standing guard? That’s…”

Zevara trailed off. She glanced at the undead, and suddenly, a cold bit of fear wormed its way into her heart. She had a thought.

“The Necromancer?”

Tkrn raised his axe.

“I saw him in the city earlier today. I could track and kill him—”

“Not that idiot. I mean the Necromancer.”

“Oh.”

Tkrn looked worried. Zevara shook her head.

“If it was him, we’d be dead already. There aren’t any Giants or Bone Horrors or Ghosts or any of the other undead he brought last time. No—this is something else.”

She pointed down the street.

“This area is secure. I’ve got civilians holding bows, and a few mages are catching any Crypt Lords they see. You go and organize the adventurers. Tell Relc I want to see him, and find Olesm! We need his Skills!”

“No one has seen him this day. They saw him leaving the city, but—”

“If he’s here, find him! I’ve got to go. The east streets need help.”

Tkrn nodded and loped off. Zevara exchanged a few curt words with a large Drake sergeant and ran through the streets.

The undead had caught the city by surprise, but the city militia wasn’t like a Human one. Nor were the citizens. The undead had overrun the first few streets, but their momentum had halted once the Watch and groups of combat-capable citizens had formed barricades and halted their advance.

The problem was that the undead weren’t sticking to the streets. They went through houses, over rooftops—attacking the beleaguered defenders from behind. They were hunted down, but it added another layer of complexity to Zevara’s nightmare.

And the eastern streets were furthest from the guardsmen’s barracks. They needed reinforcements or else—

Zevara ran out of the alleyway just in time to see a Crypt Lord smash its way into a group of guardsmen and civilians, sending them flying. The bloated Drake’s corpse was immediately attacked from all sides and pushed back by a pillar of stone, but while everyone was concentrated on it, a pack of zombies ran past the line and towards the civilian archers.

The fifteen or so Drakes and Gnolls froze up in fear with one exception. Krshia calmly took down one zombie, shooting an arrow through its eye. She drew a wickedly long dagger and grabbed a second zombie while Zevara crashed into two more.

The last zombie ran past the two and opened up a male Drake’s scales with a devastating strike. He had a piece of sword buried in his hand, making all of his wild swings deadly.

The Drake fell down, screaming, and his companion backed away in horror. Selys raised her bow, but the zombie split it in two with a single blow. She screamed for help, but the corpse of the Gnoll ran at her, mouth opened wide to bite.

She raised her claws—but she wasn’t her Uncle. She hadn’t had time to get to her apartment and grab her steel fighting claws he’d given her. Sword it was. Selys pivoted, dodged the bite, and slashed with her claws, but it was a zombie and barely noticed the raking cuts.

Sword! She needed the sword! Selys dodged sideways for it, and the zombie whirled. It leapt, and the sword stabbed into its leg as Selys fell back.

Zombies didn’t do this! This was the work of some kind of advanced death magic. It was like every zombie was a Ghoul. She tried to wrench the sword free as its teeth touched her throat—

“Begone, pest.”

Selys screamed in horror as the zombie’s neck suddenly twisted around. The undead Gnoll collapsed to the ground, twitching.

“Just so we’re clear: I didn’t raise them.”

Pisces appeared out of the air next to Selys and Zevara, hands glowing with purple energy. Selys gaped at him, scales nearly white.

“You!”

“Ah. Hello to you, receptionist. Don’t wait to thank me for saving your life.”

Pisces gave Selys a mocking bow and then turned. He pointed, and two more zombies and a skeleton fell to the ground, necks broken.

Krshia bared her teeth as she hammered her zombie’s head into the cobblestones, breaking its bones until what she held wasn’t so much a head as bits of one.

She stood up as Zevara beheaded her opponent. The Drake turned to Pisces as Selys backed away from him. He raised his hands protectively, and a wall of wind swirled around him.

“I mean you no harm. And this wasn’t my fault! I was in the city all day, and I knew nothing of this—this event.”

The Drake eyed him. She shook her head and shouted to the guardsmen as they wavered, trying to form their line.

Another group of eight armed Drakes ran into the street. They rushed into battle with a roar as Pisces pointed, and another zombie that had gotten past fell down, dead.

“Believe me, ah, Captain. I would never jeopardize my good standing with your city. In fact, I am helping to prove my innocence. I—”

“I believe you.”

Pisces blinked. So did Selys. Krshia was firing into the crowd of the dead already.

“We have countless witnesses who saw the undead emerge from the ruins. Besides, I doubt a [Necromancer] of your level could reanimate more than five bodies, let alone a horde like this.”

Pisces scowled.

“I—”

He hesitated and glanced at Zevara.

“Um, that is correct. But this is rather inconvenient, is it not?”

She glared at him.

“Are all you Humans as damn crazy as this? Liscor is under attack!”

He shrugged.

“They’re just the undead. Quite easy to subdue. I have every confidence your Watch will safeguard innocent civilians like myself.”

He turned.

“If you’ll excuse me—”

“Oh, no you don’t!”

Selys stomped on the hem of Pisces’ robe, and the mage stumbled. His arms wind milled frantically as he tried to keep his balance. He turned and glared at Selys, but she advanced on him, tail thrashing.

“You stay here and help! If this wasn’t your fault, then help us!”

Pisces hesitated. Zevara hesitated. She didn’t like the mage, but she needed all the help she could get.

“Can you do that back-snapping thing many times?”

He sniffed and clicked his fingers. Three skeletons fell down like dolls that had their strings cut.

“It’s neck snapping, and I have ample mana reserve. I suppose if it means exonerating myself…”

“Good. Do it!”

The Crypt Lord finally fell to the ground, splashing those nearby with toxic blood. Zevara cursed as those hit cried out and retreated to be cured. She ran towards the line of guardsmen, already shouting. Selys stared at Pisces, finger raised. He raised his hands.

“I understand. I will help. Stay here and, ah, try not to put an arrow in my back.”

She spluttered, but Pisces was already striding forwards. He kept a safe distance between the struggling fighters and the dead as he stared at the masses of the undead running through the streets.

“I assume I will be remunerated appropriately for this?”

Zevara turned her head and snarled at Pisces.

“Kill these things and I’ll give you a medal. Now start casting or I’ll slice your damn hands off!”

Pisces sniffed and conjured a flaming sphere into existence. He aimed it at a crowd of the dead as they surged down the street.

“I prefer gold, myself.”

He threw the orb, and fire consumed the dead bodies. The [Necromancer] smirked as the undead screamed. Fast or not, the zombies and Ghouls were still slow targets to him. He snapped the neck of a Ghoul leaping to one side, casually, bringing it down.

But who was making them so quick? A foreign [Necromancer]? What…

What had happened to Ceria?

Pisces stared towards the gates, and his smile winked out. Then—he heard the Watch Captain scream in the distance.

“Fall back! Fall back to Tesseract street!”

Whyever would she do that? They were holding fine with him here! Pisces turned to tell her they were losing a decent defensive spot—when he whirled around.

“[Fire Orb]!”

He shot a second spell into the dark street—then snapped his fingers. A neck twisted—and the flaming orb went out before it could strike its target. But the undead refused to go down. And Pisces couldn’t snap the neck of the too-pale Drake with huge fangs and long, grasping limbs that looked melted.

“W-Wight?”

His voice trembled. Pisces backed up. But that was a rare undead! Then he saw a Crypt Lord appear. His fingers snapped.

The neck—twitched. And did nothing more. Pisces stumbled back as the Wight ran forwards. Then he saw the second Crypt Lord appearing, and eight Ghouls bounded down. The [Necromancer] turned and ran.



——



“Something is wrong.”

Toren looked up from the floorboards. He was using an old knife to lever up bits of food from between the floorboards. Erin stared out the window.

“Can’t you feel it? Something is wrong.”

She pointed out the window. It was dark now, but there was a faint speck of light coming from outside.

“That’s Liscor. Why is it red over there? Is something burning?”

Toren walked over and saw the skies around Liscor were indeed glowing. And there was smoke, rising and barely visible in the moonlight.

Erin stared out the window worriedly. The pot of meat and noodles sat untouched on a table. She leaned over the windowsill and then grabbed at her stomach. The anxiety was getting to her in a physical way.

“I feel—bathroom.”

She pointed at Toren.

“Keep an eye on that, okay? If you see anything—”

Her stomach gurgled, and Erin ran out the door, leaving the skeleton by himself.

Toren hesitated. He looked at the knife and the floorboards. Then he carefully put the knife on one of the tables and reached for the sword he’d leaned against one wall. He opened the door and walked outside.

The skeleton had made it halfway down the hill when the Antinium seized him and ripped his skull off his body. The Worker tossed Toren’s skull to the ground and seized his sword. He left the flailing skeleton’s body and walked up the hill towards the inn.



——



A Ghoul caught a Drake’s halberd in one hand and punched him in the midsection with the other. The guardsmen gasped and collapsed as the Ghoul tossed aside the weapon and tried to race past the other guardsmen.

Zevara’s sword cut through the top of the Ghoul’s skull, severing the flesh and rotted brain. The Ghoul collapsed, and she helped the Drake to her feet.

“Watch the damned Ghouls! They’re strong enough to rip your scales apart if you let them!”

Another zombie ran at them. Zevara turned her head and growled low in her throat. Then she took a deep breath and exhaled.

A gout of fire leapt from her jaws and blasted the zombie off its feet. It fell to the ground, screaming and burning as Zevara coughed.

“Where are the damned Antinium?”

The Watch had retreated back down another street, giving ground up as more undead flooded into the city. They were fighting well, and healing potions and a rain of arrows and magic had given them the advantage, but the undead kept coming.

And the more dangerous ones had appeared. Wights, whose single touch would make you freeze up and fall over, helpless. Crypt Lords, who were so huge and tall they could sweep aside low-level [Warriors] in a single blow and break every bone in your body—or spit black poison.

The Watch was not equipped to deal with them. Or at least, they were well equipped, but they needed reinforcements. And those reinforcements were not coming.

The Watch was one half of the city’s defenses, but in truth, they only handled [Bandit] raids, criminals, the occasional monster pack, and so on. The landscape took care of most armies, but the other half of Liscor’s considerable defenses was the army.

The army…who were at Oteslia, leagues to the south! But even in their absence, there was another force, newer to Liscor, who could fight. The bargain that had made Liscor a pariah with every damn city in the south.

The Antinium. The Black Tide who had nearly overrun Izril! An entire Hive was in Liscor, and they were the true force to be reckoned with along with the Watch.

But the Antinium, always present in some capacity in the city, were nowhere to be found. She hadn’t seen a single Worker today…or the last few days.

Zevara growled again and coughed out some smoke. She walked backwards as the Drake found his halberd and joined the line of guardsmen and shouted.

“Tkrn! Where are you? Get over here!”

The Gnoll ran towards Zevara, panting. He was still drenched in gore, but now he was bleeding in places, dark blood covering his fur.

“Here, Captain.”

“Where are the Antinium? Send a message to the Queen at once! We need Soldiers!”

“That will not be necessary, Captain Zevara. We are here.”

Zevara and Tkrn spun around. Ksmvr walked towards them, two swords and two daggers held at the ready. Fifteen Soldier Antinium followed him.

Ksmvr pointed towards the failing line of guards.

“Join the battle. Kill all undead. Retreat if you suffer significant injuries.”

The Soldiers ran forwards instantly. They pushed aside the surprised Watch and civilians and crashed into the undead in a black wave of their own.

A Ghoul lunged at the first of the Soldier Antinium. The huge ant man grabbed the undead and held its shoulders with two of his hands. The other two punched downwards.

As Erin had seen, the hands of the Soldiers were more like spades or weapons than actual digits. They pummeled the Ghoul, breaking bones, stabbing through flesh with ease. The Soldier held the Ghoul down, pounding it into paste. When it was done, it stood up and grabbed a zombie and ripped its head off.

A skeleton stabbed the soldier Antinium in the back. It didn’t stagger as the blade buried and stuck in its carapace. It swung around and began ripping the skeleton apart.

Ksmvr watched the Soldiers fighting as the Drakes, Gnolls, and few Human adventurers staggered back, suddenly reprieved from battle. He nodded to Zevara as she stalked over to him.

“Watch-Captain Zevara. It is good to see you alive.”

Zevara was in no mood to exchange pleasantries.

“Where the hell were you? And where are the other Soldiers? I don’t need fifteen of them, I need every single one in your Hive! Bring them out!”

Ksmvr calmly replied to Zevara as he kept one eye on the battle.

“As this is not a period of war or crises as declared by the Council, I must decline your request. The maximum number of soldiers the Watch Captain is allowed to command is fifty Soldier Antinium and a hundred Workers in a time of crisis.”

“That is exactly what’s happening! Or do you not see the undead? I am authorizing you to bring all your Hive! Bring the Soldiers and all the Workers then! We need barricades, fortifications—”

“I regret to say that is impossible at the moment. I have brought fifteen Soldiers. That is all that can be spared at the moment.”

Zevara gaped at Ksmvr. She opened her mouth, and smoke plumed outwards as she shouted at him in fury.

“Why by the damned Ancestors—”

Again, Ksmvr cut Zevara off calmly.

“The Soldiers guard the entrance to the Hive and the surrounding streets. We will let nothing disturb our Queen. She is in the middle of a critical process. The Rite of Anastases. She is hours—less perhaps—to completion.”

“Your Queen can take her damned ritual or whatever it is and shove it—”

Zevara cut herself off as the blades in Ksmvr’s hands twitched. Half of the guardsmen near her raised their weapons, but their Captain waved them away. She eyed Ksmvr and tried to modulate her tone slightly.

“This is a state of emergency. If we can’t push the undead back soon, they will overrun this place. Your Soldiers can buy us some time, but there’s not enough. We need all fifty and soon. More than that. We need all of them! Talk to your Queen. Tell her we need help!”

“I regret that is impossible. The Queen must not be disturbed at this moment. I am sorry.”

Flames trickled from Zevara’s mouth as she opened it in rage. Ksmvr held up one hand.

“As soon as our Queen finishes the Rite of Anastases, we will fully cooperate in the defense of the city.”

There was no use arguing with the Antinium, so despite the building heat behind Zevara’s eyes, in her heart…and her lungs, she bit off her reply.

“The Workers, then. We could use them. Not just for building. If they can fight—”

“They are unable to be summoned as well.”

“Why?”

For the first time, Ksmvr visibly hesitated. He clicked his mandibles together and stared at the battle. Already, the Soldiers had pushed the undead back the street, and two were attacking a Crypt Lord as it spat black blood on them.

“The Workers are in rebellion. Many have left the Hive and fought with the Soldiers at the entrance.”

Ksmvr lowered his voice as Zevara stared at him in horror.

“Already, three have become Aberration. We fear the rest may have as well. They are violent, and many are armed.”

“You’re serious.”

“Very.”

For a moment, Zevara’s mind was caught up with images of Worker Antinium ripping apart Drakes and Gnolls. Then she brought herself back to reality and stared at the dead bodies lining the street. She snapped at Ksmvr.

“If we didn’t have a horde of the undead trying to eat us all, I’d be more worried. The citizens are either in their homes or fighting with us. If these Workers kill a few zombies, I won’t shed any tears.”

Ksmvr shook his head.

“I fear the Workers are not in the city any longer. They are moving towards a Human. Erin Solstice.”

“The one who got Klbkch killed?”

“Yes. One of the Aberrations who escaped was intent on killing her.”

Zevara didn’t have to think about this one. She gestured at the undead. The Crypt Lord was dead, but the two Soldier Antinium who had killed it were curled up, arms and legs withdrawn as they lay on the ground, dead of the poison.

“Whatever the reason is, I can’t spare anyone. She’s not a citizen here, and we’re up to our necks in trouble. The Human will be on her own.”

Ksmvr nodded shortly.

“The Queen is all. She must not be placed in danger. Erin Solstice…is merely important.”

Zevara eyed him. The words he’d just said—she couldn’t dwell on them now. She pointed towards the Soldier Antinium as she signaled the guardsmen to form up.

“Will you stay and fight?”

Ksmvr nodded. He followed Zevara as she strode down the street, Drakes and Gnolls seizing weapons and standing to follow her.

“I will fulfill my duty as Prognugator within Liscor. However, my position will cease in a few hours. Another will take my place.”

“Until then, follow me. We’ve got to use this moment until your Soldiers all die.”

Tkrn fell into place next to Zevara, swearing, as the guardsmen and lone Antinium ran after the Soldier Antinium. Suddenly, things had gone from bad to worse. He looked around as the two realized—the relief they were waiting for wasn’t going to come.

And the undead were pushing into the city. If they tore into a group of civilians, a thousand—a thousand running, jumping, climbing zombies? Ten thousand?

Liscor had a hundred thousand souls in it. This was how undead apocalypses began. They had to hold the streets.

Alone.

“Anything I can do, Captain?”

She spat, so furious she trailed smoke.

“You heard the Ant. Looks like we’ve got no choice. We need to close those gates. Get Relc. He’s the only one who has a chance of cutting his way through. I’ll grab a squad and push up.”

The Gnoll nodded and broke away from the group. Zevara and the guardsmen rounded a corner and skidded to a stop. The Soldier Antinium had thrown back the undead, mercilessly cutting their way through them until they’d reached the main street down which the north gates were located. But there they had been stopped.

Zevara saw a Soldier borne down by the weight of a Crypt Lord and another hurling Ghouls to the ground as they swarmed him. She saw groups of guardsmen struggling to contain the main flow of undead. But that wasn’t what struck fear into her soul. She pointed towards the gates where something was dragging itself through the open stone doors.

Her heart froze. The sword in her hands grew heavy, and around her, the Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans shuddered and felt terror coursing through their bodies. All around her, guardsmen and civilians fell back, screaming, unable to fight.

Zevara forced the words through her numb lips.

“What is that?”



——



It was nearly ten minutes before Erin managed to extricate herself from the bathroom and stagger back to the inn. She held her unhappy stomach and walked through the open door.

“Toren?”

The inn was dark. Erin stared around. The skeleton normally came the instant she called. Where was he?

“Hey, Toren. Where are you?”

No response. Erin didn’t hear the clicking of bones on floorboards. She stared around. He’d left the knife on the table. Had he gone out to fetch water?

Erin stared around the dark inn. He could at least have lit the lanterns. Or a candle. It was so dark—the only light came from the moon.

Where was he? And why—

Why was Erin feeling that same warning in her head again?

She spun around. Nothing. The grass shone in the moonlight from the open door. Erin relaxed. But then a prickling feeling ran down her spine.

She’d walked through the open door. But Toren always closed the door behind him. And if he hadn’t opened the door—

Who had?

“Hello?”

Erin backed up towards the door. Something moved in the shadows and shut it. She spun around, fists raised, and then relaxed.

“Oh. Pawn. It’s just you.”

The Antinium stood in the doorway, nearly invisible in the light. Erin frowned. Then she took another step back.

“Wait a second.”

The Antinium had four arms. And two legs. Pawn—Pawn didn’t have all his limbs anymore. But Workers weren’t allowed to leave the city unattended, and this Antinium didn’t have swords.

“Who…are you?”

He was familiar. At least, he seemed familiar, but he definitely wasn’t Pawn or Ksmvr. The Worker—if that was what he was—shuddered. He shook slightly and then stepped suddenly towards Erin. She backed up quickly.

“H-hello? Can you hear me? Who are you? What do you want?”

The Worker’s head twitched suddenly. Erin jerked back, and his voice came out, quivering with emotion.

“i aM AnTiNium. i haVe a NaMe.”

Erin backed up even further. That wasn’t what a Worker normally sounded like. The one in front of her was speaking rapidly, his voice surging and falling. He sounded—

Insane.

“You have a name? Um. Good. That’s good, right?”

He stared at her.

“I Am iNdivIDuAL. BuT i reJECT. I rejEcT aLL.”

“Reject? Reject what?”

He pointed at her with two arms.

“YOu. ThiS is yOuR FAulT.”

“Me? What did I do?”

The Worker raised his hand, and a sword shone in the moonlight. He walked towards Erin, still speaking.

“YOU DiD ThiS To me. yOu mAde Me THis waY. For yOU, I did tHis. bUT alL iS SuffERIng.”

Erin backed up, speaking fast. She tried to sense where her frying pan and jar of acid were, but it was impossible in the darkness.

“What did I do? I don’t remember—”

“yOU knoW.”

“Please—”

Erin took another step back and suddenly tripped over a chair. She sprawled to the ground and desperately tried to get up. But the Worker was too fast. He loomed over her, sword raised.

Erin kicked up at his groin, but the Antinium caught her leg. He pinned her down with three arms and held the last one up with the tip of its sword pointed at her face. Erin tried to scream, to shout. But her breath was gone. She stared at the gleaming blade as the Worker shuddered and stared at her.

“diE.”

The sword flashed towards her eye. Erin screamed—

And another Antinium seized the first and threw him off Erin. She gasped as the sword fell to the ground and rolled away as the two Antinium crashed into chairs, fighting, punching and kicking in the darkness.

Erin scrambled away and struck a table. She ran to a shuttered window and threw it open. The moonlight illuminated the room just in time for her to see one of the two Workers mount the other. The Antinium seized his struggling opponent’s head and twisted with all four arms.

The neck broke. The Worker lay still. The other Worker stood up and stared at Erin.

She held the frying pan and jar of acid in shaking hands.

“Stay back! I’m warning you!”

The Worker walked towards Erin. She raised the frying pan, and he stopped. The Worker raised all four arms.

“Please. I mean you no harm.”

The words were familiar. The way of speaking was familiar. Erin hesitated.

“…Pawn?”

“I am not Pawn.”

The Worker shook his head. But he was not Ksmvr either. He knelt before Erin suddenly, and she nearly tossed the jar of acid. But the Worker made no move. He spoke to her, voice loud in the silence.

“I am Knight.”

“Knight?”

He nodded. The Worker stared up at Erin.

“I have named myself. I have chosen. I am Individual, first and last of my kind. I am Knight, and no other is like me. And I am here to protect you. We are here to protect you.”

Erin stared at him. The frying pan loosened in her grip, and she nearly dropped it. Her mind was spinning. She stared at Knight. There was something familiar about him, too.

“I—I don’t know you. I never—”

Knight straightened.

“Please, Erin Solstice. You must remain calm. We are here to protect you.”

“We?”

Movement. Suddenly, Erin saw it outside the window. She threw caution to the wind and raced outside, brushing past Knight. There she stopped.

Antinium. Workers. They stood around the inn, arms folded or holding weapons. Swords, maces, axes—and not just those. Rolling pins, rocks, large branches…even a large vase in one case. They stared silently at Erin as she froze in place.

“Who—”

Knight emerged from the inn and bowed his head to Erin.

“The dead are coming. Please remain inside. We will protect you with our lives.”

She looked at him.

“You? But who are you? Where’s Pawn?”

“He was kept in the Hive by the Prognugator. He remains. But we have come. We have chosen. We are Individual.”

“Individual?”

Knight nodded. In front of Erin, a Worker turned. He bowed to her, low, as far as his stiff exoskeleton would permit.

“I have chosen. I am Bishop.”

Another Antinium turned and then another.

“I too chose. I have decided. My name is Vladimir.”

“I am Calabrian.”

“I am Emanuel.”

“Call me Garry.”

“I wish to be known as Milner-Barry.”

“Belgrade. I will die for you.”

“We will all die for you. I am Jose.”

They spoke, one by one, in the faint moonlight. Antinium looked at Erin, all alike on the outside. But each one different, each one individual.

They were all familiar to her. And only now did Erin realize. She knew them. She knew them all. They had never had names, but she knew their faces, the way they played. She knew them.

They were her chess club.

Thirty odd Workers stood on the hilltop, ringing the inn, waiting. Erin could barely speak. She felt it. A surge of terrible emotion—whether fear or happiness or sadness, it was impossible to say. But she knew something had happened. They had all chosen names.

But that was only half of the question. The other half burned in her fiercely. She turned to Knight. The Antinium was staring into the darkness, splashes of green blood still coating his carapace.

“Why are you all here? Why now? Why tonight? What—what’s happening?”

He opened his mandibles to reply. And that was when the first zombie appeared out of the night and tried to take a bite out of Erin’s face. Toren leapt out of the darkness, crashing into the zombie, and the two rolled down the hill.

Erin screamed. More bodies shuffled and ran through the grass as the Workers moved to intercept them. And then the night was filled with the dead, and Erin found herself fighting for her life.



——



“Fall back! Fall back!”

Zevara screamed as Skinner grabbed a Drake and pulled his scales and skin off him like a child pulling a wrapper off a bit of candy. The horrific white face grinned down at her, sunken crimson eyes staring around layers of folded dead flesh. Fragments of metal clung to its chest, deflecting some of the arrows striking it.

She tried to raise her sword to slash at it, but her arm refused to move. Zevara had fought countless monsters, had faced and come close to death several times. But the terror that Skinner projected dwarfed anything she had ever felt before.

Zevara retreated, trembling, as Skinner’s hand swept around and grabbed a struggling guardsman. The female Gnoll had only a moment to howl in fear and agony before she was dead.

All around Zevara, guardsmen were retreating or dying. The undead flooded through the gates around Skinner, slaughtering the helpless warriors. Only the Antinium fought on, Ksmvr and the five remaining Soldiers blockading one street, but even they were falling back. No one could fight Skinner, and every time one of his hands swung down, someone died.

Zevara prayed they died. To live without skin—she hoped they died instantly, rather than imagine there was still life in the silent piles of bones and intestines and muscle that lay on the ground.

Skinner grinned at her. His folds of thick, white skin grinned at her too, the faces of the dead stretched to canvas his body.

She had to run. Zevara felt it in her bones, in her marrow. But she was Captain of the Watch. She couldn’t run. She had to fight. But her body wasn’t listening to her mind.

Skinner loomed over her. He tossed what remained of the Gnoll to the ground and raised his hand towards Zevara. She dove out of the way, dropping her sword, and the palm smashed into the ground next to her.

The impact knocked the Drake sideways, but she scrambled away. The red spots. It was the red spots on Skinner’s hand. Touch those and your skin would be peeled away. She had to keep her distance. She had to run—

Too late, Zevara saw the other hand circling around. She was running right into it. She tried to stop, but it was too late. Skinner closed his hand around Zevara’s scales—

“Relc attack!”

Something blurred past Zevara and stabbed into the hand. Dead skin fell around spear tip as a green Drake grabbed both spear and Zevara and ran nimbly past Skinner. Zevara gaped as Relc, Senior Guardsmen of the Watch, grinned toothily at her and twirled the spear as he ran.

“Heya, Captain! Mind if I take this one on?”

“Relc!”

It was a warning. Relc turned his head, and both he and Zevara hit the ground as Skinner swiped at them. His hand smashed into a wooden building instead and shook the foundations. Skinner stared at both Drakes, and Zevara felt her scales growing cold with fear. But Relc just shook himself and bared his sharp teeth.

“Soldiers, fall back. I’m going to need some room for this.”

He raised his voice, and somehow, it was audible over the fighting, over the terror in Zevara’s heart. Men and women looked up—and the Drake shivered as that crimson stare fixed upon him again, like a lighthouse.

Terror. Terror—death and terror! It was primordial, deep, and even Zevara wanted to void her bowels and flee. It took all her will to hold her sword steady.

But Relc just shouted.

“Clear a space. Hold the lines!”

He wasn’t Senior Guardsman Relc in that moment. The former soldier of Liscor’s army spun his spear. [Sergeant] Relc held his ground. And Skinner…stared at him, then seemed to realize Relc was immune to the stare. Relc’s body lowered.

“Not an officer. I hate fighting monsters.”

He was watching Skinner. The undead froze—then lashed out so fast his hands cut the air. But Relc was already gone. Zevara’s head whirled.

Where—

Skinner had missed as well. A second hand had come out, grasping for the Drake, but Relc hadn’t dodged left or right. He’d launched himself from the ground with his spear. He landed as the monsters swiveled, kicked a Ghoul aside—

Blurred past a Crypt Lord whose head vanished as Skinner ripped it off. A green figure, zig-zagging through the undead as if they were statues. Zevara heard someone mumble something. They had once had a nickname for him, hadn’t they? In his days in the army.

“The Gecko of Liscor.”

A zombie popped up on his right side, but Relc raised his spear and ran the undead Human through. He kicked the zombie’s corpse off his blade into a skeleton, punched a Ghoul to the ground, and looked up as Skinner’s other hand swept towards him.

Relc raised his spear and met the hand as it flew at him. His spear’s tip stabbed rapidly into the open red sores in Skinner’s hand. The monster jerked, and for the first time, Zevara thought she heard a sound come from the creature’s mouth.

No—not the mouth. It came from inside Skinner, a high-pitched shriek that echoed across the city.

It was deafeningly loud, but barely within Zevara’s auditory range. She clapped her hands to her ears, and Relc staggered back, doing the same.

Skinner swiped at Relc and caught him on the leg with an open palm. Relc roared and stabbed down with his spear, and Skinner let go just as quickly. The Drake staggered backwards, and Zevara saw part of the scales on his leg had been stripped away.

The Drake slashed Skinner’s arm, but the monster brought his limb out of harm’s way. A hand swung back—Relc leaned under it as it beheaded a Wight—

Fast as a sword’s swings. But the [Spearmaster] was watching it, reacting before the arms even reached him.

Again, Skinner fixed Relc with his crimson gaze. But though Zevara saw Relc shudder, he gritted his teeth and fought through the magic affecting him. He raised his spear and dashed towards Skinner, cutting and stabbing as he ran across the monster’s side.

Chunks of flesh sloughed to the ground as Skinner swung his hands at Relc. The Drake dodged away, keeping too close to Skinner’s body to be caught. The massive undead suddenly rolled, and Relc had to dodge away before being squashed.

“You bastard! [Triple Thrust]!”

He struck so fast Zevara didn’t see it, three lancing jabs. But the thick flesh—Relc yanked the spear out, cursing. He slashed, his arms a blur—stepped back. Then just backed away.

Why? He wasn’t doing any damage. Dead skin littered the ground, but Skinner just rolled back upright and attacked again.

Relc ran through the undead, stabbing and knocking them aside like flies as the hands struck at him. The zombies and skeletons weren’t able to even slow him down, and the Ghouls he neatly dispatched with a spear strike to the neck or head.

Suddenly free of Skinner’s gaze, the guardsmen around Zevara turned and formed another line. The Drake Captain found another sword and sliced a zombie apart as Relc blurred towards them.

Faster, stronger, and unaffected by fear. That was Relc, Senior Guardsman, the strongest guard in the city. Perhaps the world. A Level 33 [Spearmaster].

He paused in front of Zevara, panting. She saw red blood running from his leg and grabbed a healing potion from her belt.

“Here!”

“Thanks.”

He nodded and smashed the bottle against his leg. The purple liquid ran into the gaping wound, and he sighed.

“Damn. This isn’t good.”

“Do you know what that thing is?”

Zevara pointed to Skinner as the monster slowly rolled back upright, the undead around him forming a living wall. Relc shook his head. He was focused and barked a reply between gulps of a second potion. Stamina.

“Something ugly? It’s—strong. All that dead flesh is like armor. I need to slice it away to get at what’s underneath. But one touch of those hands—”

“Can you kill it?”

Relc paused and then grinned at Zevara.

“I can. Maybe. Probably. But give me some of those Antinium just to be safe.”

“The Antinium? Why—”

Relc pointed. Ksmvr was slicing apart zombies as the four Soldiers still alive covered his back. Even as Skinner rolled back upright and stared at Ksmvr, he kept fighting, undeterred by the crimson stare.

“The Ants are immune to whatever he’s doing. So am I.”

“Why’s that?”

Relc grinned and tapped his head with one claw.

“[Indomitable Will]. Anyone without a similar Skill should fall back. This thing—it’s projecting fear. Like a Level 30 [Mage]. Higher.”

“I got that. Can you take it out with just them?”

“I can try. But give me more [Archers] and [Mages] to get rid of the undead. I can’t have them on my back and that thing.”

“Just stop it for now while I call a retreat. We’ll set up another street and give you a chance—”

Zevara stopped, and Relc turned. Skinner was moving. The giant creature stared hard at Relc as the Drake raised his spear. But suddenly, Skinner turned. He pulled himself around and began moving back through the crowd of undead.

Relc crowed as Skinner pulled himself away. He twirled his spear and broke a skeleton’s skull with the butt end as he shouted at Skinner.

“Yeah, that’s right! Run! Run! Finally met someone with too many scales for ya, huh? Run away and…wait a second.”

Relc blinked. Skinner was leaving. Not just retreating; he was pulling himself back out the gates while a wall of undead protected his ‘back’.

“It’s…leaving?”

Zevara stared at Skinner in confusion. Why was he going?

“He must sense you’re a threat.”

Relc swore, and Zevara nearly spat fire at Pisces as the mage appeared out of thin air. The Human flinched, but pointed at Skinner as Relc glared at him.

“This creature is highly intelligent, guardsmen. It won’t fight anything that can resist its fear effect and poses a credible threat. Perhaps it could win, but it won’t risk that.”

“Why?”

Pisces shrugged.

“Most of the more valuable undead specimens have some kind of survival function built into it. I surmise this being may be the same.”

“Being? It’s not undead?”

“No.”

Relc grabbed Pisces as Zevara stared at him. The Drake shook the mage none too gently.

“Okay, but where is that thing going? Is it going back into the ruins or do we have to worry about reinforcements now? Even without that monster, we’re still up to our ears in undead!”

“I don’t know! I don’t know!”

Pisces fought to get Relc to release him. He shouted as the undead resumed their attack on the lines of guardsmen.

“Perhaps it seeks to wear us down first! Or maybe it goes after easier prey! I can’t tell!”

Relc released Pisces with disgust. He turned back to Zevara.

“Well, that’s just great. If it comes back with another horde, we’re cooked. But what could it want if it wants more victims? There’s only a few farming villages around here and they’re almost all north or west, not east. So where—”

He broke off, eyes widening. Zevara looked at him as Relc turned towards the east. He breathed the words.

“Oh no.”

Pisces looked at Relc’s face and then east too. He blinked in sudden comprehension, and his face turned slightly pale.

“Erin.”

He and Pisces were starting after Skinner, and Zevara was about to call Relc back. Then—the monster paused at the gates. She saw it turn—and that ‘hand’ rose. Skinner looked at Relc. At Pisces. And its grotesque hand moved. Almost in a parody—a mockery of Pisces.

Skinner snapped its ‘fingers’—and the fallen undead began to get up. The ones hacked to pieces slowly began to rejoin. Watch Captain Zevara turned—and Pisces turned dead white.

“It just—”

A fallen Ghoul sat up, and Relc beheaded it. Then he watched the Ghoul fall over—the glowing eyes fade—and flicker back to life as the severed section of its head began to drift back to its body.

“Fall back!”

Contemptuously, Skinner hauled itself away as a second wave of undead rose and joined the first. Then the Watch was in full retreat, fleeing, trying to block the streets. And every single member of the living that fell rose once more. It left the city and the danger with a tiny bodyguard. Too much direct danger here. Skinner’s glowing gaze turned elsewhere, to the only other pocket of life it sensed. A handful of villages. And…

An inn.





1.61


Why did the dead try to kill the living? Was it hatred?

Did they seek to defile the living, to drag them into the same unending torment of their lives? Did they envy those who still drew breath? Or was it a greater mystery? Did the undead simply want others to join them, to add to their endless numbers?

Maybe—perhaps—the dead simply resented the living. Maybe they remembered the past, and it hurt them. Or that they could understand the living and wished to ease their suffering.

It could be they just knew how ugly they were and didn’t want anyone to look.

Erin screamed as an almost completely decomposed Gnoll came close. He had no face. Nothing that she would use that word for. Just—rot. Horrible, black innards that still twitched and slapped together wetly as he lurched at her.

A hand seized the zombie around the remains of his ruined head. Ignoring the flesh and other things that squelched around his fist completely, Knight tightened his grip until something crunched and the zombie jerked and fell still. The Worker dropped the corpse to the ground and kicked the body away. He stood, protectively shielding Erin at the entrance of the inn.

Around the hill, the dead were struggling with the living. But there were no screams. At least, the Antinium did not scream. The dead did. They howled or made ghastly sucking sounds or sometimes groaned, but the screaming was what terrified Erin. She felt they shouldn’t be able to. The dead should be silent.

But they weren’t. If anything, it was the Workers who more closely resembled silent reapers. They moved in unison, fighting, blocking, forming a living line as they fought against the undead. Sometimes they spoke, but with a terrifying calmness of their own.

“Die.”

“Suffer.”

“Perish.”

Two Antinium gripped a zombie by each arm and tore him apart. Another seized a skeleton with two hands and ripped out its ribs with the other two.

They fought like machines. Uncaring machines that took apart the undead like a child taking apart legos. Sometimes, it was a clean dissection. Other times, they smashed the dead bodies to make them fall apart.

But for all that, they were like children. None of the Workers knew how to fight. They were extremely strong, but clumsy. And the undead may have been rotting, but they were all killers.

A Worker staggered back, arms grasping as a skeleton slid forwards, bashing at the Antinium’s head with a mace. It nimbly dodged the Worker that strove to seize a bony arm and raised its mace to crush the Antinium’s skull.

“No!”

The skeleton looked up, and a flying frying pan crashed into its face. The yellow flames in its eyes dimmed, and the Antinium took the chance to seize it.

Erin watched the Worker begin to dismantle the skeleton and stared at her hand. She hadn’t even realized she’d thrown the frying pan. But more undead were charging up the hill towards the inn.

“Stay behind me, please.”

Knight pushed Erin back as more undead crashed into the line of Antinium, this time from the back. The Antinium wavered as they struggled to hold the dead back. Erin saw one of the Workers slip and fall as a Ghoul tackled him. The undead began tearing at him.

He had a name. He’d told it to Erin. Magnus. Magnus as in Magnus Carlsen, a name taken from Earth’s chess champion. He fell down, and Erin saw his blood. It was green.

“No!”

She tried to run forwards, but Knight seized Erin by the waist and lifted her up.

“You must not. You must not put yourself in danger. We are here for your protection.”

Magnus fell, shielding his face. Erin pulled harder, but Knight refused to let go.

“He’s dying!”

“Yes. The enemy surrounds us. We are at a disadvantage. This must be rectified.”

Knight pulled Erin back and raised his hand. He spoke calmly.

“[Defense Formation].”

Magnus thrust the Ghoul back and raised his hand, ignoring the green blood that splattered the ground around him.

“[Attack Formation].”

He collapsed silently as a Ghoul finished tearing through his exoskeleton. The undead Drake pulled something out of Magnus and opened his mouth to consume it.

A scream of rage preceded a jar of acid by only a second. The Ghoul stumbled backwards, clawing at its face as the acid melted flesh away. He fell back, and another Antinium calmly hit him with a mop, sending him slumping to the ground.

Erin felt the effects of the two Skills hit her as she raised another jar of acid and threw it. She felt lighter—so much lighter! And it seemed as though she had suddenly grown a pair of eyes on the back of her head. She was aware of the undead around her, just as she was aware of how the other Antinium were moving.

They held the line. Even as the undead ran up the hill, the Workers met them, calmly ganging up on the individual undead in twos and threes. The Antinium had no sense of fair play, and the undead were hard pressed to defend themselves against three sets of four hands stabbing at once.

A Ghoul rushed past two Antinium and ran towards Knight. The Antinium raised his sword, but a skeleton leapt past him and knifed the Ghoul in the chest. Toren and the Ghoul fell, stabbing and biting at each other.

Erin spun. She lifted a pot and hurled it. A zombie staggered backwards. She had—she had had quite a few pots and pans she’d seized from her kitchen, but she was running out. She’d hurled them into the crowd, trusting to her [Unerring Throw] skill.

Now the undead were falling, retreating. Erin stared as zombies began turning, running backwards. Was it a feint? Were more undead coming? She looked around wildly, searching for movement in the darkness.

No. No more undead were coming for the moment—they were all dead. Toren pulled himself away from the Ghoul, reclaiming an arm as the Ghoul jerked once and then lay still.

How many horrors had died here? A hundred? Two hundred? It felt like a thousand.

“Thirty-four.”

Knight said it calmly as a skeleton fell down, skull cracked open from one of Erin’s frying pans. She stared at the Worker as silence fell and the last corpse stopped twitching.

“What?”

“We have killed thirty-four of the undead. The rest have retreated. They will return in greater numbers, I believe.”

Erin stared at Knight as the Antinium calmly cleaned gore off of his sword. Around her, the Workers were helping each other to their feet, carrying the bodies down, and…digging?

Yes, the uninjured Workers were digging in the ground. Dirt flew into the air as they dug a long, wide trench around the inn. They were building a moat. A moat.

“What’s happening? What is all this?”

Erin stared at the dead, at the Workers, and at Knight. She felt dizzy, sick. And not just from the carnage. Just a few moments ago, she’d been waiting for Rags, and now there were Workers with names and the living dead.

And the smell. Erin threw up a little in her mouth but refused to let her stomach heave anything else up.

Knight bowed his head to Erin again. He was like Pawn only—different. Physically, they were the same, but even though they had the same voice, the same body, and both had named themselves after chess pieces, he was different. Erin couldn’t explain why or how. She just knew.

“The city of Liscor and the surrounding area is under attack, Erin Solstice. A horde of the undead emerged from the Ruins and besieged the city around an hour ago.”

Erin stared in horror at Knight. She fought to make her mouth work.

“The ruins? Undead? You mean they came from there? Did something set them—”

Her heart skipped a beat, and her stomach lurched.

“Oh no. The Horns of Hammerad. They went in there. Are they…?”

Knight shook his head.

“Several adventurers reached the city alive. I do not know any more than that.”

Erin seized Knight by the shoulder, ignoring the fluids that coated his carapace.

“Any Minotaurs? Anyone with pointy ears? An Elf? Half-Elf, I mean.”

Again, he shook his head.

“No such adventurers were seen. The only ones who survived were Humans. A…captain of one of the teams. A woman wearing silver armor. And a few other Humans. No one else.”

Erin stared at Knight, wide-eyed. Her thoughts melded together and then shut down. Knight nodded his head at her.

“I am sorry.”

She did throw up, then. Erin bent down and hurled up her lunch and dinner. She felt a cool hand on her neck, steadying her, and as she gasped and cried, Knight helped her back up.

It took several minutes for Erin to regain…control of herself. She was crying, talking incoherently, clutching Knight’s hand in a death grip as Toren brought her some water. She drank it, spat, threw up, drank some more, and finally stopped.

She didn’t stop panicking. She didn’t stop the agony in her heart or the terrible loss. But she put it inside her for a while to focus on the now. Erin looked at Knight as the Antinium studied the trench, which was only getting deeper around her inn.

“What’s happening? How many zombies are in the city?”

He paused, and another Worker—Calabrian—volunteered the details.

“The fighting was intensifying as we left. Over thirty thousand undead creatures have attacked Liscor, and the Watch fights them in the streets.”

“H-how do you know how many…?”

She couldn’t see in the dark. It sounded so precise—Knight pointed left.

“One of our number, Bird, counted them. At least thirty thousand.”

Thirty thousand. Erin tried to remember how many guards she’d seen at the gates or patrolling through the city. There were so many of them, but against tens of thousands of undead? More than that?

She turned to Knight.

“Should we—I mean, can we help them? How bad is it?”

He shook his head and gestured to her inn.

“Going out would not be wise. The undead fill the grasslands and will attack anything living. They have come here and will attack again soon. We are here to protect you, but you must stay here.”

Erin stared at him in horror. She stammered, and her voice cracked.

“Me? But—I’m just one person. Why me?”

He returned her gaze seriously, black, faceted eyes intent on her face.

“You are alive. That is all the reason they need.”

“And they’re out there? Regrouping?”

“Yes. Can you see them?”

He pointed, and Erin looked out. There was little light anywhere—the stars and moon were the only sources out here, but her eyes had grown accustomed to the night. She looked, and the sight made her stomach tighten with fear.

Dark shapes moving in the moonlight. They filled the plains, moving slowly, a cluster of shapes surrounding something white that was approaching the inn.

“Oh gods. There are thousands of them.”

“Hundreds. They move towards us.”

Knight’s words sent a chill down Erin’s spine. She opened her mouth to say something and then froze.

“Hold on. What’s that thing in the distance?”

Erin squinted. It was the white mass the undead were surrounding. At first, she thought it was just a bunch of them moving together, but it was something else. It was far away, but coming…closer?

“Is it…a giant slug?”



——



The Watch of Liscor fell back, fighting, loosing arrows into the undead crowd, casting spells. Fighting, retreating.

Dying.

They were outnumbered and fighting across a wider and wider area. The gates had let in the undead like a virus. And so long as they had been contained to the first few streets, the battle had been even, perhaps even in the defender’s favor.

But with Skinner’s arrival breaking their ranks and the ceaseless influx of the dead, the streets had been overrun. And more and more dead had surged down alleyways, forcing Zevara to pull her warriors back further and further or become surrounded. And as they did, the scope of the battle extended until dozens of streets were locked in desperate combat, stretching thin numbers even further.

A sign of how the battle was going lay with the civilians. They were being evacuated to the southern section of the city—the children and those unable to fight, that was. Everyone else was fighting. Those with class levels and even those without.

They fought, Drakes and Gnolls and the few Humans, healing themselves with potions, making the enemy pay for each step with blood. But the dead were bloodless. And they just kept coming.

Zevara and twenty guardsmen fought down one of the main streets, trying to stem the flow of the dead. They weren’t enough, not for such a wide passage. But overturned wagons had barricaded part of the street and created a kill zone.

The problem was that the dead were coming over the roofs, scaling walls, running through alleys. Zevara had archers shooting down as many as possible, but the defenders would still have been quickly overrun were it not for the Human and Drake fighting at the front.

Pisces pointed, and another Ghoul jerked. Beneath his rotted skin, his spine twisted and broke, and the undead collapsed soundlessly. The [Necromancer] turned, and more undead fell down as if their strings had been cut. He had accounted for over half of the fallen dead lying in piles on the street. The other half were due to Relc.

The Drake stood in the center of the undead mob, spear spinning around him too quick to follow. He stuck a zombie through its head with the shaft of his spear, twirled the butt up to shatter a skeleton’s jaw, ducked another skeleton, punched a Ghoul hard enough to break its ribs, and then beheaded a zombie with a wicked cut from the tip of his spear.

Zevara cut down a skeleton and gasped as it cut her shallowly across one arm as it fell. She stabbed it until the lights in its eyes faded and saw the massive creature approaching Relc from behind.

“Relc!”

The Senior Guardsman spun around and hurled his spear. The Crypt Lord staggered back, the spear lodged deep within its chest. Relc ran forwards and seized the shaft of the spear. With a roar, he ripped it back out, kicking the giant undead backwards as he did. The Crypt Lord fell on its back, and Relc stabbed downwards, spear blurring until the bloated creature lay still.

He staggered back and ran back towards the barricade as the undead tried to encircle him. The guardsmen opened up a small gap for him to squeeze through, and then he was beside Zevara as they pushed the dead back.

“Damn.”

Relc coughed and swore as Zevara moved back with him. His scales were covered in black bile, and she instantly grabbed a potion out of one of the crates and handed it to him.

Relc took a sip of the potion, spat black liquid out, and drank the rest. He threw the empty flask over the barricade and nodded at Zevara.

“Thanks. I got some of the poison in my mouth.”

She scowled, but couldn’t put any of her usual force in her words.

“Be careful. If we lose you, our line will collapse.”

Relc grinned at her wearily.

“Hey, don’t worry, Captain Z. None of those things can scratch my scales. If there weren’t so many of them, this would be as easy as frying fish.”

“But there are a lot of them, and they just don’t stop coming.”

Zevara hissed in fury, and her tail lashed the ground as she pointed.

“It makes no sense. They’re not congregating in one spot, and they’re attacking every side. Like a real army would do. And that guard they have around the gates is—”

“Not like them. I know.”

Relc’s eyes narrowed as he stared in the direction of the open north gate. Despite their best efforts, they hadn’t managed to retake it, not even with Relc. The dead around the massive metal doors refused to budge, and the gates were cumbersome enough to close on their own.

“It’s that damned skin-creature that’s doing it. So long as it’s around, they’re going to keep coming. If you’d let me go after it…”

Zevara shook her head curtly.

“You wouldn’t make it out the gates before they surrounded you. And that thing is too much for you to handle alone.”

He glared at her.

“And so we’re going to leave it? I told you, it’s going after Erin—”

“Do you want me to try and save one Human in this mess?”

Zevara shouted at Relc. He blinked, and she continued.

“No matter what that thing is doing, we can’t spare anyone to go after it, let alone you. If we knew what it was doing, then maybe—”

“Waiting.”

Zevara and Relc turned. Pisces stumbled back towards them. His face was pale, and his hair and robes were matted with sweat. He stumbled towards a cart holding water flasks and drank greedily.

The Captain of the Watch looked back towards the fighting. Without Relc and Pisces, the guardsmen were already beginning to be pushed back.

“We need you to keep casting, Human. If you can’t, we have plenty of mana potions—”

Pisces glared at Zevara.

“Potions do not cure exhaustion. Even my efficient spells tax me. I must rest.”

“I’ll go. The poison’s cured.”

So saying, Relc sprinted to one of the wagons and leapt. He kicked the skeleton that was climbing over it and landed on the other side, spear already blurring. Pisces drank more water, and both watched as Relc kept fighting.

Zevara glanced at Pisces.

“What did you mean? That creature is waiting?”

He nodded and wiped at his mouth.

“It is clear that these dead are protecting that skin creature in some way. It may have control over the dead or spellcasting ability—regardless, they act as convenient fodder while it takes the skin of creatures to sustain itself.”

“Then why did it leave?”

“The danger. As I said, your Senior Guardsman posed an actual threat. It realized this and withdrew. It will let the undead keep fighting until we are exhausted and it returns. Remember—for each one of us that falls, it has another minion to use against us.”

Zevara knew that. She was more worried about the trick it had pulled before it left.

“What about reanimating the undead we’ve already slain? How many times can it do that?”

Pisces shrugged. He looked as unnerved by that as she did.

“I’ve heard of undead doing that, but not even the ones I saw at Wistram could—it’s a spellcaster. But it cannot do that forever. Only a few times, I suspect. And it might not be able to control all the undead. The Crypt Lords are lesser leaders. The fact that greater undead than them haven’t been created is odd. So many dead gathered for so long together—”

“And why the girl? Why is it going out after that Erin Solstice? The one who got Klbkch killed?”

Pisces hesitated again, and Zevara wondered if he was about to lie. When he spoke, it was with clear reluctance.

“…She probably doesn’t matter at all. It’s simply how that creature works. He will eliminate every living being in the area and surround the city with his army. He senses her, no doubt, and wishes to eliminate any possible threat. Or perhaps it is fleeing east then north, towards Esthelm, to minimize the risk to itself.”

“Well. We may have time if that’s the case.”

Pisces opened his mouth, and his eyes widened with outrage. Then he looked at her, really looked at her panting for air, the screaming, embattled city, and closed his mouth and nodded.

“Yes. Perhaps. But we will be overrun soon if there are many more of the undead.”

It was a statement both knew to be true. Zevara shook her head. She raised her sword, feeling exhaustion in her arm. Flames trickled from around her mouth as she spoke.

“Drink whatever potions you need. Rest if you must. But get back to casting quickly, mage.”

She ran back towards the guardsmen as they struggled to hold back several zombies. Pisces stared after her and shook his head. He took a few quick steps back and then made his way to a pile of dead corpses that archers had shot off rooftops.

The skeletons, Ghouls, and zombies had taken the rooftops and smashed in their skulls or splattered on the ground when the arrows had knocked them off their perches. But as Pisces raised his hands, the shattered flesh and bone reknit, and the dead rose back upwards, unearthly lights appearing in their eyes.

Six zombies, three skeletons, and four Ghouls stood up, staring at Pisces. He pointed east, in the direction of the gates.

“Go. Avoid fighting until you reach the inn. Protect the girl. Kill any who would harm her. Go.”

Pisces watched the undead run towards the barricade, moving past the startled defenders. He smiled crookedly and had to sit down as the effects of the spell hit him.

“My, my. I suppose I’m a little too invested in that girl for my own good.”

He laughed and cast his eyes towards the sky.

“Well. A token deed. It will not amount to much. Not when…”

His voice trailed off. Pisces stared blankly at the undead fighting with the Watch. He was a [Necromancer]. He could sense how many dead were in the city and outside it, a fact he had carefully neglected to mention.

After a moment, he smiled again and stood up. His blood was burning in agony, and he felt nauseous, exhausted. Even a potion wouldn’t help him, but the undead still fell as he killed them methodically.

Pisces laughed as the dead fell around him, uncaring of the toll. They would die. All of them. The few living guardsmen and citizens couldn’t stem the tide any more than Erin would survive. He laughed and cast his eyes skyward again, perhaps for the last time.

“Ah, but what a wonderful night to die!”

He could have run. Yet…the [Necromancer] looked around. He had the [Invisibility] spell upon his lips. It would be simple to cast it and hide from the undead. He, of all people in Liscor, could probably evade them and escape with his life.

But—Selys was swinging a sword on one side, Zevara holding the line on the other. Relc was fighting ahead of him. Another, reasonable man might have fled.

“But I’m better than that. I am…”

The [Necromancer] whispered the words, and his head turned as his friendly undead ran past the ones under Skinner’s control. Pisces never finished his sentence. He whirled, waved his hand, and a group of zombies collapsed. He pointed, and the dead died. But they kept coming. And coming.

And coming.



——



“Oh god. What is that?”

Erin stared down towards the white shape moving towards them. Every time it dragged itself towards her, more horrific details emerged. At first, it was just a white shape, a sickly slug. Then it was a slug with arms, and then…a creature of some kind. But then she saw that its skin wasn’t skin but dead flesh packed together. And then she saw the faces, stretched across the skin and…

They ran towards the Antinium, Skinner’s small army. They fell into the huge trench the Antinium had dug, breaking bones, climbing out only to be kicked back in by the Workers.

There weren’t many. Around a hundred or less. That’s what Knight had said. As if that wasn’t enough to bury them all in corpses anyways. Most of the undead had moved back towards the city. But the creature came on, dragging itself through the grass.

It left glistening chunks of itself behind. Pieces of dead skin. It horrified Erin more than anything.

But she had to fight. Erin lifted another jar of acid and hurled it at a Crypt Lord. The massive, bloated creature shrieked and slapped itself with its clawed hands. But the acid ate away its skin, melting the massive creature’s outsides in a matter of minutes.

That was her role. Erin stood at the door of her inn, throwing jars of acid, pots, pans, knives, anything she could. She had one frying pan next to her as an emergency weapon, and she’d already hurled most of her chairs down the hill.

It was working. It was working. The dead were filling the trenches, but they hadn’t broken past the Workers yet. It was working—

Skinner had reached the bottom of the hill the inn was on. He raised his head and looked up. Two crimson eyes flashed at Erin, and suddenly, she knew fear.

Fear.

“No…no.”

Skinner’s eyes glowed at her under the moonlight. His gaze touched Erin and held her. It caught her and made her feel fear beyond anything she had felt. She was helpless.

She shook. Erin was consumed by horror, pure, unfiltered terror that paralyzed her to her core. The crimson stare was death. Hers.

She couldn’t even move. She couldn’t even scream.

Erin felt something tugging at her. Knight grabbed her and pulled her backwards, towards the doors of her inn. He shoved her inside, and she stumbled, partly free of Skinner’s gaze on her.

“This creature projects fear of some kind. Please, move back. We will handle this.”

Erin stared at Knight. She worked her jaw soundlessly.

“I—”

She wanted to say she’d keep fighting. But she couldn’t. She glanced outside, and Skinner stared at her. He was grinning, his toothless, empty mouth a gaping hole. She froze up, and Knight blocked the door with his body.

“Stay behind me.”

The undead surged forwards as one. The Workers met them as they tried to leap the moat and failed and knocked the undead into the pit. Several zombies managed to tug one Worker into the pit, where he disappeared under a pile of discolored limbs. But the line was holding.

Was holding.

Skinner’s gaze moved from the inn for one second. He seemed to regard the ditch and then looked back towards the inn. For a second, Knight wondered what had happened. And then the ranks of the dead drew back, and a larger creature lurched forwards.

A Crypt Lord stood on the other side of the trench. But he—or rather she—didn’t try to cross. Instead, the Crypt Lord began spitting, sending huge gouts of black blood raining over the Workers.

Several Workers hurled their weapons across the ditch, but they bounced off the Crypt Lord’s thick, discolored skin. It spat blood back at them, and the Workers shielded their faces ineffectually with their hands.

Suddenly, the moat was no longer a barrier but a liability. The Antinium could not cross to fight the Crypt Lord and instead had to retreat while it poisoned them.

Knight watched as two Workers fell, curling up into balls as the poison killed them. He stared as the undead swarmed into the trenches and up the other side. He sighed.

Chess was not at all like battle. There were some similarities, and the [Tactician] class leveled with chess. But it did not teach fighting. It did not account for unpredictability. Chess was a beautiful thing. But battle—

Battle was uncertainty.

“Ah. Alas.”

Knight made sure his body was covering the door. The other shutters around the inn were closed, and the second floor was also shut off. Any dead creature could break in, though. He gestured and raised his voice.

“Close ranks.”

The Workers stepped back, forming a wall around the inn. There were just over twenty left now, some injured, many without weapons. They had learned something of fighting, though. They would not die easily.

Knight turned his head slightly and saw Erin was still staring out at the undead as they cleared the moat. Her face was pale. He tried to smile, but all he could do was lift his mandibles slightly. What would Pawn say at a time like this? What was the right thing to say?

“Please stay inside. You will be safe here.”

She tried to say something. But Skinner’s stare paralyzed her, took away her words. Knight closed the door and put his back to it.

Twenty workers. A hundred undead creatures. Skinner. They would hold with all their might. As long as they could.

Until they could no longer move. Until they were no longer alive. Each Worker was resolved to die. That was simple. Knight only wished—he only wished—

He only wished it were enough.



——



Rags sat on the hilltop, watching. She was no longer watching the city of Liscor. That place would fall or burn. It mattered not to her.

Instead, she was watching a small hill covered in flickering motion. Rags’ eyes were good. Even in the night, she could see the Workers struggling against the undead. She was also good at counting. That was why, despite her entire tribe sitting with her on the hill, she did not order them to move.

It was a sensible choice. All of Rags agreed with that. Aside from Skinner, the terrifying monster that struck fear into her heart, the undead were too numerous, too deadly. Goblins weren’t good at killing things that were already dead, and they would have been outnumbered by the dead even if they joined the Workers. Not a good fight. So why fight?

All of Rags agreed with her choice, even if not all of her tribe did. The frightened, pitiful Goblin part of her told her to run. And the cold [Tactician] self she had learned told her the battle was unwinnable. Rags knew this. But another part of her hurt.

It was a small part. It wasn’t a practical part or a particularly useful part. It knew there was no other choice. But it hurt. And it distracted her as she watched the battle.

Absently, Rags’ hand went up and poked at her flesh. No. It wouldn’t stop hurting. She knew she couldn’t do a thing. So why try.

A Goblin shifted next to Rags. He wanted to go down there. But one glare from her and he stopped moving. She was Chieftain. She decided. And she had decided not to interfere. It was only logical.

She just wished that part of her would stop hurting.

Rags touched her heart again. There was nothing she could do. Nothing but watch. She would watch until the end.

That was all she could do.



——



Knight stood against the doorway, arms stretched wide, his entire weight against the wood behind him. His legs buckled. But he refused to fall.

The undead had crossed the moat. They had reached the inn itself, and it was there the Workers were making their final stand.

They were doing well. Well enough. The lone Crypt Lord had fallen, taking five Workers with him. But the remaining Workers fought together, shielding the inn, letting their strong bodies take the brunt of the assault to protect the fragile wood.

They had learned. A few short minutes—or was it hours?—of battle had made them stronger. They fought with weapons methodically, killing, guarding. They were holding.

It was just that the dead were relentless. And they clustered thickest around the door of the inn, seeking entry.

Knight blocked them. He took the swords and claws, not even bothering to block. He couldn’t move his arms anyways. He just had to cover the door. Simple enough. Simple. But so difficult.

Green blood trickled down his sides. He was cold. He had been stabbed. Was being stabbed. A group of the undead savaged him, stabbing, biting.

A Worker hurled a zombie off him. Two more joined him, and they crushed the others, breaking them, taking them apart like a building or a carcass to be butchered.

Knight tried to move, but felt himself sinking to the ground. No good. He had to stand. He had to be a shield. A Knight. He moved in an L-shape, but his name was more than that. He was a protector. A champion of the innocent. She had told him that. He remembered. He remembered everything.

One of the Workers paused before Knight. Knight struggled to remember his name. Garry? Yes, Garry. Named after Garry Kasparov, one of the greatest Grandmasters of all time. A good name.

Garry stood beside Knight as the others covered them. He spoke.

“You are dying.”

Knight could no longer feel his body. But he could see. Green blood—his blood—stained the ground.

“Yes.”

It was a pointless comment to make. He strained to ask the more important question.

“Is she still safe?”

“She is.”

“Good.”

There wasn’t much else to say. Knight’s vision was growing dark. But he struggled to move, to block the doorway with just a bit more of his body. It was important. He rasped at Garry.

“Protect her.”

The Worker nodded.

“Of course. Until we perish.”

“Good.”

The world was growing dark. And cold. But Knight didn’t care. He just wanted to play another game of chess again. He was sure he was better. And if—if she was alive, maybe she would remember. He had loved playing with her. Each time, no matter how few they had been, how short.

He wished he could play another game. He would open with the Danish Opening, risky, but push her as hard as he could. Just to hear her laugh in delight or praise him. If he could play another game in that warm room, it would be perfect bliss if—

Knight didn’t close his eyes. He had no eyelids to close. But he stiffened, and something left him. The other Workers took no notice. They were fighting, bleeding, holding the enemy off. Only one person noticed among the dead and the living. Only one person cared.

Erin.



——



They were dying. Erin sat in her inn and heard it. She knew it. They were dying.

All of them.

The Workers fought outside, so close she could hear them as they spoke. They were short phrases that tore pieces out of her heart.

“I have fallen.”

“My arm has been torn off.”

“Continue on without me. Protect her. Please.”

Passionless inflection. But not passionless words. She heard them fall and die, begging the others to keep fighting. To protect. Protect her.

It hurt more than anything else. More than being stabbed, more than physical pain. But she couldn’t move. She was rooted to the spot, unable to do anything but hide.

Hide in her inn while her friends died.

She didn’t know their names. She’d forgotten them as they’d spoken. But she knew them. She’d played chess with each of them. Taught them. Klbkch and Pawn had brought each one countless times, and Erin knew their every move in chess.

And they were dying. For her.

She tried to move her legs. They shook, trembling against the floorboards, refusing to carry even a bit of her weight. Her hands were the same.

They were dying. She had to do something.

Erin grabbed at her frying pan and then let go of the handle. She covered her ears with her hands and curled up. She was afraid.

Afraid.

The fear was overpowering. It wasn’t even a conscious thing, something Erin could fight against. It was like a basic math equation, an unchangeable part of the universe. If she fought, if she tried to fight, she would die. She couldn’t overcome that.

But she could still move. Erin felt it. She could run. The Workers would protect her. If she ran—

Something in Erin rebelled against the thought. Run? Run while they died for her?

It was the only sensible choice. But they were dying. For her. And that made running wrong.

Even if it saved her? No. It was impossible. They were all trapped. The undead were everywhere. That thing was coming. Running was just a slower death.

Erin shuddered. She had heard Knight’s last words. They cut at her, pulling pieces out of her soul. She wished she could move. She wished—

Her foot trembled and knocked against the table. Erin heard something clatter to the floor and flinched. She looked down.

In the moonlight, something rolled next to the chair and stopped. Erin stared at it.

She saw a chess piece lying on the floor. It was a broken knight piece, a Drake holding a sword and a shield, only someone had snapped it off so only the legs and base remained.

Slowly, Erin bent to pick it up. She held the chess piece in her hand and felt at the sharp edges.

She put the chess piece on the board. She stared at the two sides, white and black, bathed in the red light from Skinner’s eyes. Her heart was filled with fear. Her mind was broken by terror. But her soul cried out as her friends died.

Erin’s hand moved. She pushed the white pawn piece forwards. She hesitated and then pushed a black pawn two spaces forwards.

Pawn to E4. Pawn to E5. Bishop came next, to C4. A classic opening.

Slowly, Erin began to play. It was wrong. It was the wrong thing to do as the Workers bled and perished. But she played anyways, mechanically, playing out the game on pure instinct.

The pieces moved mechanically. Erin played the game, and time slowed around her. Time stopped. Time—

Time was a strange thing. It didn’t matter at all for entire days and mattered the world in a single moment where it flashed by. For Erin, time had always disappeared when she played chess. That was why the Skill she had learned was so fitting.

Such a silly thing. A useless thing. It made one moment longer. It was good for a little bit, but only that. It only made a second into an eternity. It couldn’t level mountains or grant her luck or do anything else.

It just made a moment immortal. So Erin played. She played as the undead slaughtered her friends and Skinner’s gaze touched her heart. She played.

A useless game. A worthless game. She lost to herself with half her pieces still on the board. But that wasn’t important. Erin reset the board and played again, moving the pieces with reckless abandon.

It wasn’t about chess. It was just about the time. Every second, fear etched itself into her mind, always present, always there. It was part of her and part of the endless games she played. Again. And again. Playing, always playing, until fear and living were one and the same.

“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”

Erin muttered the words again. She remembered her dream and the certainty of it. The dead Goblin Chieftain. The blood. The smell of oil.

Death and violence.

If she were a king, moving, fighting would only lead to her misery. And death. She had lost friends because she’d fought. But she would lose them again if she did nothing.

“If he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”

But that was just it. Someone died, even if the king didn’t. The king was a selfish jerk, letting people suffer in his place. Erin’s hand moved on the king and slowly tipped it over.

“I am no king.”

Erin stood up. The fear was still in her, still biting, still trying to hold her down. But it was part of her now. It still tried to paralyze her thoughts, but it was old now. There was something more important than fear. More important than pain or death.

“I am a queen. And this is my inn.”

How many minutes had passed? How many seconds? It felt like years, but the battle was still raging. The only difference was that Erin could move. She seized the frying pan and then hesitated.

Slowly, Erin walked into the kitchen and came back carrying a huge glass jar. It was one of the big jars she used to store the bulk of the Acid Fly’s acid. She pushed the door slowly open and saw Knight lying in front of it.

For a second, Erin wavered. The jar of acid tipped in her hands. She steadied it and then looked around.

The dead were everywhere. But down the hill, Skinner was looking upwards. He was commanding the flow of the battle. Like a general. Like a king.

Erin supposed that made her the other king. And this was check. Well. She was promoting herself to queen and damn the rules of chess.

Skinner stared at Erin. The crimson gaze fixed her, sending tendrils of terror into her to squeeze at her heart. But she had felt it before. It was an old trick. She lifted the jar of acid.

“Come on, you bastard!”

Her voice echoed from the hilltop, cutting through the sounds of battle like thunder. Erin surprised herself, but remembered her Skill. [Loud Voice].

Skinner didn’t blink. He couldn’t. But he seemed surprised as far as Erin could tell. His gaze moved sideways, and she sensed undead moving towards her. The Workers cut them off.

The jar of acid sloshed in her grip. Heavy. Without her [Lesser Strength] Skill, she would barely have been able to lift it. But she raised it up onto one shoulder and then heaved it into the air like a giant shot put.

The glowing green projectile flew down the hill towards Skinner’s face, straight as an arrow. He raised his hand, too slowly. It broke on him, and green liquid drenched the giant monster.

Acid covered Skinner’s face and body. He screamed, a high-pitched sound that made Erin’s teeth hurt and the Antinium clap their hands to their ear holes. But he didn’t die. He ripped his own flesh away, tearing away layers of skin. Then he looked up at Erin and screamed.

The dead flooded the hilltop, and Skinner shrieked in rage, pulling himself up towards Erin, hands digging into the soil and earth.

“Come on!”

Erin stood on top of the hill, frying pan raised, as the Workers surrounded her. Her blood was on fire. Her heart hurt. But she would keep fighting.

Skinner stared at her. Erin stared back. Neither one blinked. He was her target. She could keep fighting until he was dead.

She wouldn’t stop. She would keep going, regardless of fear or death.

Until the moment he stopped moving. Until her last breath. Until her friends were safe or they were all dead.

Until the end.

The dead rushed at Erin, and she raised the frying pan and hit the first zombie hard enough to break all of its teeth free. The darkness moved, and the dead were everywhere.

Everywhere.





1.62


She knew when the first skeleton cut her that she was going to die. Erin stared down at the open skin on her arm and wondered if she could push the two red halves together. She raised the frying pan and hit the skeleton with all her strength.

It fell down. Erin kicked it until the lights in its eyes went out. She was strong. Strong as a man? Strong enough to kill. She’d hit a dead Drake until the iron frying pan had dented and his skull had caved in and bits had squished outwards.

But the dead were everywhere, and somehow, each time Erin turned around, there were fewer Antinium around her. But there were always more undead. Their glowing eyes watched Erin, and their clawed hands sought her life.

Once, she thought she saw Toren. Her skeleton danced among the undead, sword raised, stabbing, cutting. His fellows seemed to only half notice him, only fighting back after he’d made the first blow. But he was only one, and she couldn’t tell him apart from the other skeletons.

Erin ran back and forth, ducking under slow swings, throwing the few jars of acid she had at the Ghouls as they bounded towards her, hitting skeletons aside, and seeing the black shapes protecting her. Each time a sword thrust at her heart or she stumbled, a Worker would be there, grappling a zombie away or seizing a Ghoul by the throat.

The girl fought, and every time she turned around, another Worker, another friend, was dying.

And then she turned around and there were only the dead. The few Workers that remained struggled alone, isolated.

Erin backed up towards her inn. Eight Workers came with her. The rest lay silent. They barricaded the doors even as the undead began breaking through the windows. Erin tossed aside the frying pan that was bent nearly out of shape and realized she’d torn the skin from her palms even as she grabbed a chair.

The dead battered at the door as the Antinium clubbed at arms and heads breaking through the shutters, and outside, Skinner’s crimson gaze lit up the inn. He was close.

Erin was bleeding. Blood dripped from her arms and legs. Something had stabbed her in one of her breasts, and she was sure she’d never heard of that happening in a story. She clutched at her bleeding chest and sat down.

Just for a second.

It was very dark.



——



Zevara stood in the center of the street as the undead rushed towards her. She took a deep breath and breathed fire.

A stream of bright flame shot from her mouth, incinerating the front rank of the undead and making the others stop to claw at their burning forms. Zevara kept up the stream of bright fire as long as she could. Five seconds. Ten. And then she had to stop and gasp for air.

The world was dark. Spinning. She couldn’t breathe. Yet the enemy had been stopped for a moment. But only a moment.

They were everywhere. And they had pushed the defenders of the city back, back, until they were battling down the main street, next to the barracks, outside one of the entrances to the Antinium’s Hive. And though the battle still raged on, Zevara knew this was it.

The end. Once their lines broke this time, there would be nowhere else to go. The children and those citizens not fighting would be exposed. Already, they’d been crammed like sardines as the guardsmen had them move further and further back from the fighting. Any more and—

Were the other streets already overrun? Liscor was massive. She had lost contact with Tkrn. Was this the last area holding?

It wasn’t her fault. That was what Zevara wanted to say. She’d done her best, damn it. With thousands of warriors she’d held off tens of thousands. Who could ask for more than that? The army wasn’t here, the damn traitors. The Antinium should have been.

But she’d failed, even though she was always going to fail. The Watch had never been meant to protect the city from siege. There were over four thousand in the city that held over a hundred thousand civilians. They were able to quell fights, catch [Thieves], stop [Bandit] raids—

But never an army. And especially not an army of the dead.

How many were there? Thousands. Tens of thousands. They kept getting back up. The living became the dead, and the dead refused to die. Stab wounds didn’t slow them. Fire melted their skin but had to crack their bones before they stopped. Beheading didn’t slow some skeletons, and the Crypt Lords could kill scores before they were brought down.

If. If the walls had been held, the Watch would have prevailed. If they had held the first few streets instead of fighting in every damned alleyway, they would have held the line.

If she’d let Relc try to kill Skinner, they might have pushed the undead out of the city. And if the Antinium had joined them, they might have won.

They were still fighting. Ksmvr’s Soldiers guarded several streets leading to their Hive. More warriors stood guarding the sloping tunnel into the earth, but none had joined the Watch. They were all back, protecting their Queen.

Another group of undead ran down the street. Zevara gulped down more air.

Damn him. Damn him. She’d counted on the Antinium. They were what had been needed, but he’d refused to send them out. The Hive’s Soldiers and the Workers would have made all the difference. They could field far more than three hundred if they needed to, but Ksmvr had refused. He was heartless. Not at all like his predecessor.

A Ghoul bounded ahead of the running zombies and skeletons. Too fast. Zevara raised her sword and slashed at its chest. The dead woman stumbled, but then raised a hand. Too quick, and her sword was caught on bone.

Zevara opened her mouth and exhaled. Fire ignited in her lungs and spilled out her mouth. It burned the air, the dead, and even her. It was her ancient birthright, but it was not hers.

The world greyed out and spun as Zevara stumbled. The Ghoul was lurching back, screaming and clawing at her ruined face, but then she lunged forward. A spear tip punctured the tip of her head, and she fell down.

Someone was at Zevara’s side. The Watch Captain felt a huge arm helping her up.

“Careful, Captain Z. You’re running low on air.”

Zevara gasped and shook Relc’s hand off. She tried to inhale air, but her breath was coming in short gasps. She gasped and clawed at her throat. She could barely breathe, but she had to. She spat fire again, and a crowd of the undead went up in flames.

Coughing. Gasping. It was pain, and she couldn’t breathe. Zevara stumbled backwards as the undead seized the lull in the deadly blasts of fire and surged forwards.

Relc stepped forwards, spear blurring. He stabbed two zombies in the chest with blinding speed, pivoted, punched a skeleton down, and then raised his spear as another zombie lurched at him.

“[Triple—]!”

The zombie’s head exploded as Relc’s spear struck three times at once. The Drake caught a bit of flesh in his open mouth and gagged on the rest of what he’d been about to say. He spat, coughing, and whirled his spear around.

More guardsmen rushed forwards, and Zevara stumbled backwards. She’d given them all the time to rest she could. Any more and she would stop breathing, she knew.

She gasped for more air and then raised her voice. She had to know.

“Tkrn. How are the others doing?”

The guardsmen fought in front of her, a thin line of weary soldiers, blades and armor covered in gore. Zevara looked around.

“…Tkrn?”

The Gnoll was nowhere to be seen. She remembered she had stopped getting his reports. Zevara tried to remember where she’d seen him last. Running down a street to deliver a message? She shook her head.

Gone. They were all gone. Or going.

Relc fell back, cursing as the undead pushed forward. The thin red line grew redder and fell back as the undead pushed forwards. And this street was not alone.

Across the city, guardsmen fell back as the barricades broke. Ghouls raced over the rooftops, too many to be stopped by the few arrows and spells coming from below. They raced towards the streets where the citizens of Liscor were guarded by the wounded, sensing their prey was helpless.

“We’re out of healing potions.”

Tkrn appeared out of the chaos, limping to tell Zevara that as the Watch fell back another street. She just nodded at him. What else was there to say?

“Fall back towards Market Street. We’ll make a stand there.”

He nodded as the guardsmen ran or carried each other past Zevara. Relc brought up the rear, spear still blurring with speed. But even he was slowing down. Exhaustion was doing what all the undead could not.

“Relc. Can you…?”

He grinned at her. Everyone was running backwards—but the undead were so fast—he came to a halt.

“Leave it to me. Just save a spot for me when I get back, huh?”

She nodded and ran with her guardsmen. Back, back again. Relc didn’t need to say anything. Both she and he felt it.

A single Drake turned in the street, and a Wight hesitated. The [Spearmaster] stood there as a hundred undead poured towards him. Holding them for a moment so the Watch could regroup.



——



Selys Shivertail was a Level 1 [Soldier]. She had been trained, once, as an adventurer. She knew how to fight with her claws, and she had been mentored by great warriors. Heroes of her species, even.

But she had given that dream up as a girl. Now—she regretted it. Regretted every second of not having a Skill greater than [Swift Strike].

“[Swift Strike]! S-swift—”

She tried to use the Skill again, but she could only do it once every five minutes. Far, far too little for this battle. She swung instead and cut a pale monster lightly on the chest. It kept coming, and the spears of Drakes and Gnolls around her forced it back. Selys felt ashamed she’d been showing off to Erin. It was one thing to surprise her friend. But she was not ready for battle.

“Wight! Kill the Wight!”

Her arms were shaking with exhaustion as she fought with the civilians alongside the Watch. There were [Hunters], Drakes and Gnolls who had experience with blades skirmishing in the streets with the undead.

Krshia had joined her Silverfangs on the rooftops, shooting Ghouls and other undead coming up at them. They were reaping dozens with each minute, precise Silverfangs from the Great Plains. Selys saw a Drake aim a crossbow up, and the bolt exploded through a Wight’s head.

“Where’s the Antinium? Where’s our reinforcements?”

He was screaming at the Senior Guard leading this group of volunteers. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark looked around as her partner, Jeiss, whirled his sword, slashing a zombie’s arm off and beheading a skeleton in the same move.

They fought well—against everything but the larger undead. Beilmark wasn’t listening. She gasped.

“My family—”

“Beilmark, focus! They’re safe!”

Jeiss and Beilmark were both parents and neither knew where their families were. Selys raised her burning arms, trying to step back into line, but the Drake with the crossbow yanked her back.

“You’re exhausted. Grab a stamina potion and rest!”

He was a [Veteran] of the army. Selys thought he’d said his name was—Menolit? The Drake was missing half his tail, but not from this battle. Grimly, the Drake reloaded his crossbow, sighting for stronger undead.

He saw one coming their way and screamed.

“Crypt Lord! Run! Run!”

It came at them in a lumbering run. This one was on all fours, and a huge head of eyeballs stared down at them past two maws of bone-teeth. Menolit fired—and his crossbow did not a thing to slow it down.

“Jeiss!”

The Watch’s finest [Swordsman] tried to confront the monster alone as Beilmark swung a club left and right, knocking down zombies running past the monster. Jeiss lunged—and his blade cut in a zig-zag motion.

“[Cross Slash]. [Swiftsilver Riposte]—”

He drew back, tail swinging wide as he stepped out the way of an arm—but the Crypt Lord opened its mouth and vomited that poison. Jeiss had to break off his chain of strikes—and he stumbled. With exhaustion? With wounds—

A limb the size of Selys’ body hit the Drake, and he went crashing backwards. Beilmark grabbed him as the Crypt Lord advanced again—and she dragged the screaming Drake back.

“Bones broken. Get to—get to—”

An apartment was sheltering some frantic fighters trying to get in. They had lost their protective cordon. Now—Selys saw frightened faces within windows slamming them shut as monsters began to claw on the residential street. The Crypt Lord was lumbering at them.

“Get indoors! Open up! Hold them off until help comes! Barricade the doors—inside, now! It’ll smash through everything!”

Menolit was shouting at the others. He grabbed Selys’ arm—but neither one had time to get inside. The door was locked—and the Crypt Lord was coming.

Zevara and Relc were fighting down another street. Selys whirled—and the Crypt Lord came to a shambling halt. It stared at her, and she wondered if her wavering sword was scaring it.

Then she saw the bulbous, rotten eyes focus on someone coming their way. A short Drake leaning on a spear—and a tall figure that Selys recognized. For only one person had…rabbit ears.

“Dead gods and Ancestors. At last.”

Menolit sagged against a door. Selys didn’t answer him—Beilmark looked up and groaned in relief. But all Selys said was—

“Grandmother?”

Her heart squeezed with worry, but the Drake holding the spear ignored Selys but for a single motion with her claw. One side.

Then the Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild nodded to the furred man with rabbit ears. Liscor’s only Courier leapt into the sea of undead, and his fists blurred as he punched the head off a zombie. He kicked a skeleton into pieces as the Crypt Lord spat at him—but he was gone in a second.

Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as the [Spearmaster] of Liscor, one of two in the entire city, lowered her stance. She faced the Crypt Lord side-on.

“[Spear Art: Tree Limb’s Reach].”

Her jab with the short-spear in her arms elongated, and the enchanted blade struck the Crypt Lord as it lumbered forwards. The spear’s tip burst into flames, and the monster lit on fire.

It still came on, and Hawk kicked it from one side, making the beast stumble.

“[Endless Spear Flurry].”

Selys’ grandmother stabbed and stabbed and stabbed. Eight, seventeen—Selys couldn’t count how many times she hit the Crypt Lord as it slowed, bursting into flames as her enchanted spear hit it. Then the Drake was leaping back, nimbly—before she clutched at her back. She strode back, leaning on her spear, panting.

The Crypt Lord tried to follow her and Hawk as the Beastkin disengaged, wiping gore off his fists. But it was burning—burning—

The streets cheered as the monster fell. But Tekshia just marched up to Selys and grabbed her granddaughter’s arm.

“You’re alive. Good. Block the streets! Is Jeiss alive? You idiot, we need you intact!”

“Guildmistress—”

“Back to the barricades!”

Menolit shouted, stirring everyone from their stupor. The Drakes and Gnolls rushed back as he bowed, deferentially, to one of Liscor’s highest-level fighters.

“Guildmistress Tekshia, will you help us here?”

“Can’t.”

Hawk was the one who replied. He wiped sweat from his forehead and grimaced as he got blood and fluids all over his fur. The two of them were panting.

“We’re fighting street-to-street against Crypt Lords. We have to go. Selys, stay here with Beilmark. If this street is overrun…run into the Hive or find a cellar.”

Selys’ grandmother was grim. Hard as stone even now—but her claw was tight on Selys’ arm. The Drake [Receptionist] wanted to cry.

“Grandmother—”

“I have to go.”

“Are we going to be alright?”

Tekshia was already striding down the street. She looked back at Selys and then jerked her head. A flash of light made Selys look up.

“Guildmistress Alonna is holding them on another street. The Mage’s Guild, Runner’s Guild—keep fighting. Where are the Antinium?”

She looked for answers, but Jeiss, drinking a potion, just looked up bleakly. Tekshia gazed at him and then raised her spear.

“The Walled Cities were right about the Hives, then. It doesn’t matter. The Necromancer never took the city. To arms. Keep fighting!”

She began to run. Selys turned and ran back up the street as Hawk bounded after the Guildmistress. All of Liscor was fighting—there were [Mages] flinging spells down with the Gnolls, now. But where were…?



——





The guardsmen met a larger force holding the entrance to Market Street. The burned out road had been torn up again, this time so that stalls and doors could be turned into another barricade. The Drakes and Gnolls who held this spot were exhausted, wounded, but the dead clogging the street were a testament to their will to fight.

Zevara took to the front of the line and looked back over her guardsmen. She knew she had to speak, to give them hope, a reason to keep fighting. She just had nothing left to say.

A voice raised above the shouting and ever-present noise in the distance. A calm, emotionless tone.

“Watch Captain Zevara. I must speak with you.”

Zevara turned and saw Ksmvr. The Prognugator of the Antinium strode towards her, two Soldier Antinium at his side.

His exoskeleton had been crushed on one of his arms, and something had torn open his side. A gauze binding had already turned dark green with blood, but he was otherwise unharmed.

One of the Soldiers limped as he walked, and Zevara saw his left foot had been half torn off. But the Soldier did not cry out or show any sign of distress. They halted before her, and Ksmvr nodded as if nothing was urgent in the world.

“Watch Captain Zevara. I regret that we must part ways now.”

She stared at him.

“What?”

“This battle comes too close to the Hive. I must pull back the Soldier Antinium from the streets to better guard the Hive. I tell you this as a matter of courtesy.”

Zevara struggled for words. The only reason they’d held on for so long was that the Soldiers were blocking off several streets. Without them—

“Coward. All of Liscor is fighting! Guildmasters are in the streets—the Free Hive swore to fight with us! We took you in when every city in Izril refused! You fought with us against Az’kerash!”

Tkrn howled at Ksmvr. The Antinium flicked his gaze towards the Gnoll and then away dismissively.

“I regret this decision. But I must prioritize my Hive. I hope you understand. Your duties are similar to mine in nature, Watch Captain Zevara.”

She stared at him. Tkrn was growling, but she put a hand on his shoulder.

“I understand.”

Ksmvr nodded.

“Good. I wish you—”

“I understand that you’re a coward and a fool.”

Ksmvr paused. Zevara raised her voice as the Watch around her looked around.

“We’ve fought and bled for this city and your blasted Hive. If we fall here, everyone dies! But you won’t even give us more than a handful of Soldiers! Don’t you realize what’s happening? Or is your damned Queen not aware of what’s happening?”

The air around Ksmvr and the two Soldier Antinium froze. His hands touched at his sword hilts.

“My Queen completes her duties. As do I. Insults to her name—”

“Eggs rot your damned Queen!”

Zevara shouted at Ksmvr. She pointed at the destroyed streets and ruined buildings.

“We’ve kept Liscor safe! We’ve held up our end of the bargain—you Antinium swore to protect this city from attack! And where are you when we need you!?”

Ksmvr paused.

“I must protect my Hive.”

“Liscor will fall!”

“Liscor may. But the Hive shall never be taken, even if a hundred thousand undead should attack.”

What was worse, Zevara believed him. She cursed him, but Ksmvr remained impassive. He shook his head.

“Say what you will. But the Queen’s safety is—”

“Zevara!”

Relc shouted behind her desperately. A Crypt Lord had appeared down the street, from the wrong side. He must have broken through somewhere else. Guardsmen streamed towards him, shouting as Relc held off the undead coming from the other direction.

Zevara cursed and turned towards Ksmvr, but the Antinium was already striding away. She opened her mouth and then closed it. There was no point in wasting her breath.

The Captain of the Watch stared bitterly at Ksmvr’s back. She longed to plant a sword in it or strike at the Antinium, but that would just see her dead sooner. Instead, she turned. Drakes and Gnolls were already fighting the Crypt Lord as he spat black blood at them, slicing at them with claws made of broken bone.

Zevara raised her sword and ran back towards the fighting.

For the last time.



——



“Erin.”

For a moment, Erin thought someone else was shaking her. When she looked up into the dark eyes and saw the four arms of the Antinium, she remembered someone else.

“What?”

The Worker pulled her upright.

“You must not sleep. Here.”

He shoved something at Erin. She took it and stared at the red liquid. A potion…? A healing potion. Hers. That was right. Hers. She’d—bought it after that day.

“Drink.”

The bottle was at her lips. Erin swallowed, grimaced, and felt life returning. She was tired. So tired that the world seemed to call her back to sleep. But the potion made her live.

She got to her feet. The Worker helped her up, and she saw he was wounded. He was missing an antenna and two fingers on one of his right hands. His carapace was broken in places, but when she offered him the potion, he shook his head.

“Drink.”

She did, finishing the foul liquid and feeling life return with every gulp. Erin threw the bottle across the room and struck a skeleton in the face as it sought to climb in. It slowed the creature long enough for another Worker to behead it with an axe.

Erin looked at the Worker who had given her the potion. It seemed silly, with the undead clawing at the walls and howling outside, but she had to say it.

“I’m sorry. I’ve forgotten your name.”

“Bird. I am Bird.”

He nodded at her. Erin nodded back.

“I guess this is it, then.”

“We will protect you until the end.”

“Which is now.”

“Yes.”

She paused. Erin’s head was still spinning, but she looked around and saw only the dead. The undead, but also fallen Workers. Death.

Crimson light was what she saw by. Skinner’s glowing red eyes lit up the inn brighter than the light from the moon. Bird had taken his place by one of the windows, a sword in his hand, a buckler in another.

“There are few undead left. Many are moving towards the city.”

“But that thing is out there.”

“Yes. It is close.”

Erin peeked outside. She could see Skinner, his massive, obscene frame a shadow around the two red spotlights in the darkness. A guard of undead stood around him, silently waiting in the darkness.

“He’s waiting.”

“Yes.”

Bird nodded again. Erin looked at the undead. They were still bashing at the doors, the walls, trying to climb through the windows as the seven other Antinium moved around the room, slicing off limbs and bashing heads.

The inn’s walls were protecting them, for the moment. But Erin knew it wouldn’t last.

“We’ve got to go. They’ll tear this place down around us if we stay.”

Erin walked into the kitchen. She had one jar of acid left. She took it. Bird grabbed her arm as she walked towards the door. The Worker stared at her.

“It is death out there, Erin Solstice.”

She nodded. The darkness was scrabbling against the inn, breaking in piece by piece. She saw glowing eyes, fangs, baleful malice. It felt like she was dreaming again. A dark dream from which she’d soon wake. But the Antinium…if this were a nightmare, why were they so beautifully brave?

“Yeah. But it’s death everywhere.”

He paused, staring at her face. Another Worker turned.

“Better to place the enemy in check than suffer it yourself.”

Erin blinked at him and then grinned.

“Right.”

She opened the door. A zombie stared at her in surprise, arm raised to hammer at the wood again. Erin threw a jar of acid in his face, and he staggered back, screaming. She was nearly out of acid. She’d rained it all down on Skinner and the other undead.

She had a knife in one hand. It was sharp. Erin held it in her hand and thought she was dreaming. She stepped around Knight’s body, heart beating faster and faster. The knife was slippery in her hand.

Skinner looked at her, eyes projecting fear. Erin gritted her teeth.

“Go to hell.”

She ran out the door, and the eight Antinium followed her. Erin stabbed a zombie in the face, punched him, and looked up as Skinner’s massive hand flattened the undead Gnoll. Two glowing eyes stared down at her.

She raised the kitchen knife.

“Come on. Let’s end this.”



——



Ksmvr strode through the streets as the noise of battle receded into the dull roar of sound around him. He thought as he moved, considering all that was occurring and would occur.

Zevara and the guardsmen would soon fall. Perhaps the citizens in Liscor would make a stand. It was possible they might prevail—the undead horde’s numbers had thinned. But they were still a danger.

Duty towards Liscor and the bargain with Liscor obliged the Hive to send Soldiers to defend it. But as Prognugator, Ksmvr was able to determine whether such actions were wise. And with the Queen still occupied by the Rite of Anastases, he had determined her safety was paramount.

Zevara had cursed him. Shouted at him. Her anger was understandable, but there was nothing Ksmvr could do. His actions were the only sound choice.

…Weren’t they? No, of course they were.

They were logical. He knew that. The Queen had to be protected, especially when carrying out the Rite. He was quite clear in the priorities he had been given. Her life and the well being of the Hive were far more important than the agreement made with the city of Liscor.

He spoke to one of the Soldiers accompanying him. To speak to one was to speak to all.

“Pull all Soldiers back. The streets are meaningless. We must protect the Hive.”

The Soldier didn’t respond, but Ksmvr could feel the other Antinium abandoning their positions at the street entrances. They would retreat to the Hive, guarding both entrances within the city.

There were three entrances to the Hive, only two of which were known to the Council of Liscor. The third remained outside the city, buried by several tons of dirt. It could be easily excavated, but the undead had not located that entrance as of yet.

Ksmvr continued to consider the siege as he stood at the entrance to the tunnel, watching the streets for the undead as Soldiers ran past him into the Hive. The Antinium had food and supplies for at least a month of continuous operation, which made things simple. The creature that had appeared with the undead was still at large outside the city, but it had shown little interest in the Antinium.

Regardless of the outcome above, Ksmvr estimated that the Queen would be finished with her task by the end of the night. Then he could request further orders. If she wished the city to be cleansed, the Soldiers were fully capable of doing so. Otherwise, the Hive could easily be sealed off.

She might be angry. But he had done the most practical thing in lieu of orders. She would understand that, right?

Ksmvr did not worry about his Queen’s reaction to his decisions. He did not worry. He had fulfilled his highest priority, even if it meant sacrificing lesser commitments towards the city. She would understand, would she not? She had given him no other directives.

“The city is expendable. The rogue Aberrations are of little concern and may be hunted down in time. The innkeeper—”

He hesitated. She was valuable. The city was valuable. But—

“The Hive is all. The Queen is all.”

She would understand. He dared not risk her safety by reducing the Soldiers protecting her. She had given explicit instructions not to be disturbed at any cost. At any cost. He was following orders.

And he had secured the individual known as Pawn. That was quite an achievement. Ksmvr remembered what the former Worker had said and shifted. He had been…unsure how to respond to Pawn’s words, as close to disloyalty as they had seemed.

“My judgment is not in error. My logic is sound.”

Reassured, Ksmvr nodded again. The last of the Soldiers were about to enter the Hive. But suddenly, they paused. And stopped.

Ksmvr stared as one of the Soldiers seemed to glance up at the sky, listening. And then, suddenly, he turned around and began to run back down the street.

“You. Halt!”

The Soldier halted as Ksmvr strode towards him. The Prognugator held one hand on his sword’s hilt as he stopped a few feet away from the errant Soldier.

“What are you doing? I ordered you to return to the Hive and guard the entrance.”

The Soldier stared at Ksmvr silently. Of course, he couldn’t respond, but Ksmvr sensed no difference in the Soldier’s thoughts. He was following orders. Following orders, but whose? Ksmvr hadn’t ordered—

Something brushed past the Prognugator. Ksmvr whirled, but it was another Soldier. And not just one.

Suddenly, the massive Antinium warriors were streaming out of the Hive’s entrance again. Ksmvr whirled.

“What are you doing? What is happening?”

They ran past him silently. He turned and saw them running into the city. Even as he watched, they began charging towards the undead.

“What…?”

A hand tapped Ksmvr politely on the shoulder. The Antinium turned—

A fist crashed into his face. The chitin on his cheek cracked with a loud sound. Stunned, Ksmvr fell down, hands grasping at his swords.

Undead attack? Here already? Aberration? Ab—

Ksmvr was Prognugator of the Antinium. He had been born to war, and so he drew both swords and daggers even as he rolled. He could not die. His life was important; he led the Hive in his Queen’s absence. But he froze as he looked up.

The world was different. Ksmvr felt it. In an instant, his reality changed. He looked up and knew. He felt his Queen’s anger; he sensed her ire in his mind. She had returned. She had completed the Rite. And he—

He stood above Ksmvr.

“You.”

The world began to shift.



——



Selys had never killed with a sword. She had been trained by Tekshia and her uncle, Zel, but never actually taken a life. Undead…undead were close enough.

How many had she beheaded today? Eight? Twelve? Her grandmother had told her she wouldn’t understand what it was to be a warrior until she took a life. She wouldn’t level until she had placed her life on the line and gambled with it.

Today, Selys Shivertail understood. The Drake staggered back and watched as the zombie fell, the hilt sticking out of his stomach.

The female Drake felt sick. But Krshia yanked the sword out of the dead Human’s body and handed it back to her. The Gnoll had the experience with this.

“Have you leveled?”

Such an odd question to ask as Selys’ arms burned, as the city was filled with fighting—but the Gnoll’s eyes were deadly sharp. If Selys leveled—maybe she’d be stronger. She surely would—

But there was no time to sleep, even a second. Selys shook her head.

“Not—”

She couldn’t breathe. So Krshia lifted her bow, shot an arrow, and grinned as she reached for another.

“Maybe after the battle ends, then, eh?”

Her fingers scraped her quiver, and the Gnoll woman looked down. Empty. Krshia’s smile winked out. She looked around, then ran back, cursing, calling for arrows.

After the battle ends? That assumed they were going to live.

It didn’t seem likely. Selys was behind the main line of guardsmen Zevara commanded, but already, the undead had attacked their spot twice. They were everywhere. Overrunning the streets.

“We’re going to die.”

Krshia smacked her on the head. Selys gaped as her hand flew to cover her head, but the Gnoll just snorted at her. She had been forced to descend to the streets—there were undead swarming over the roofs now, and half the city was overrun—the population squeezed into the other half behind the fighters. Or dead and moving upon their friends and family.

“Save your weeping for when you are dead, yes? We are not done. Fight. Fight until all is lost. If only my kin had come from—”

But all was lost. More undead were struggling at the barricades, fighting to break through. It was only a matter of time.

Part of Selys wanted to throw down her sword and wait for death. But it would be a terrible death, she knew. She wouldn’t even die at the end of it. So she raised her blade awkwardly, waiting for the end. If she’d only been an adventurer, leveled in another class—

A voice. A shout. Selys turned, raising the sword. She’d long since run out of arrows. But it wasn’t another attack. Tkrn ran down the street, waving the axe in his hand. He was running at a sprint, but his eyes were open wide. And he was—smiling?

“The Ants! The Antinium are coming!”

Selys looked at Krshia. It couldn’t be. They’d retreated. But now, another guardswoman had taken up the call.

“The Black Tide marches!”

“The Soldiers are fighting in the streets!”

Wildfire ran through Selys’ veins, giving her new hope. It couldn’t be. But then she saw them. Shapes. Moving out of the darkness. Not one. Not two. A moving mass. An endless stream of bodies.

The Antinium. They came in a wave, and Selys was reminded of the Antinium Wars. She remembered the same shouts she had heard as a child.

So again, the Antinium came in a wall of bodies. Beetle shells, insect eyes—mandibles shining under the moonlight and torchlight. An army without end or fear.

Soldiers ran down the street. They crashed into the line of the undead even as Selys watched, gaping. First twenty Soldiers filled the street, rushing at the enemy, and then fifty. A hundred. Thousands.

And they were not alone. Ksmvr, the Prognugator, was among them. He slashed at a zombie with his daggers, and suddenly, a Worker was next to him. The smaller Antinium seized the dead zombie and bore him down, and two more were suddenly next to Ksmvr, stomping at the dead Drake until it was paste.

Soldiers and Workers flooded out of the tunnel, an endless stream of black bodies. But that wasn’t all. The ground and streets began to ripple, and hands thrust out of the stones. The undead paused, and then a huge spade-like hand seized a zombie and dragged it into the earth. A Soldier Antinium rose out of the ground and finished ripping the undead woman apart.

The undead in the street hesitated. They were an army without fear, an endless tide of death that bowed to neither pain nor exhaustion. They would fight on even when they had lost arms or legs. They were pitiless, emotionless killers. But that was the nature of the Antinium as well.

Out of the tunnels. Out of the darkness. Workers raced next to huge, thundering Soldiers. They didn’t even slow down as the first group of undead appeared in front of them. The first Soldier smashed bodily into a Ghoul, knocking the smaller, dead Gnoll down. He didn’t pause but ran on. The dead Gnoll struggled to get up, but a Worker trampled him. And then another. The stream of Antinium did not cease.

A crowd of zombies met a Soldier. He ripped into them, shovel-like hands punching, gouging their weak flesh. Workers swarmed over another zombie, ripping, pulling him apart from every direction.

A Crypt Lord raised a clawed hand to shield itself. A Soldier leapt from a rooftop, plunging thirty feet to smash its knee into the Crypt Lord’s face. Bone and flesh gave way as the Soldier began tearing the larger undead apart. The Soldier stood up, carapace covered in steaming black blood. His right leg was shattered from the impact, and green blood oozed around the broken black carapace. He took two halting steps forward, smashed a skeleton to the side, and then collapsed.

The Workers and Soldiers paid no attention to the fallen Soldier. They surged around and over him, rampaging through the ranks of the undead, fighting with mindless fury.

The guardsmen and warriors in the streets stared. Hundreds of black bodies ran through the streets, killing, pounding, tearing.

The Antinium. They had come out of the Hive, leaving it practically undefended. They fought, overrunning the undead with a furious advance so fast that even the Crypt Lords seemed unnerved by the attacking insects. But why? Why now when they had waited so long to—

Krshia pulled Selys out of the way as a group of Soldiers thundered past them. They barely noticed the Drakes and Gnolls. But one of them was leading the charge. Ksmvr paused as, ahead of them, Zevara blocked his way.

“You! What’s happening?”

The Drake stared at the Prognugator, but he shook his head. Selys saw the Antinium had cracked the chitin around his face somewhere. He looked—confused. She heard him raise his voice.

“We are attacking. We will drive the undead out of the city.”

“What?”

The look Zevara gave Ksmvr was incredulous, and she wasn’t alone. Selys had heard the Antinium had called all the Soldiers back. So why had he changed his mind?

Ksmvr shook his head helplessly.

“I did not order it. I did not. The Queen did not either. He—”

“Who?”

“He has gone to Erin Solstice with many Soldiers.”

“Who?”

Relc ran past Selys, his scales streaked with blood and grime. Selys grabbed at him. Relc nearly threw her off before he stopped.

“Relc? What’s happening? Why are the Antinium fighting now?”

He looked at her, wild-eyed. Selys took a step back. She had known Relc for a long time, but she’d never seen him look like that. His scales were grey. He pointed.

“I saw him. I saw—he was leading them.”

“Who was? Relc?”

The Drake didn’t answer. He sagged, staring at the Antinium as they filled the streets, fighting. He whispered, so softly only Selys and Krshia heard it.

“He’s back.”



——



This was how it ended. In the last hours of the night, Erin fought outside of her inn, the undead and the Antinium mixing into a blur. She stared up at Skinner and saw death and horrors in his face. She raised a kitchen knife, a tiny weapon, and vowed in her heart to hurt him before she died.

This was how it started.

Skinner grabbed for Erin. She ducked and stabbed at his arm. Her blade cut a few inches into his dead skin and stopped.

Erin rolled out of the way as the hand came back. It still caught her a glancing blow, but the red spot didn’t touch her, didn’t steal her skin. It had taken two Workers already. Their carapaces had been torn away by Skinner and tossed to the ground.

A Worker caught Skinner’s hand. He knocked the Antinium away, but three more gripped his arm and stopped it. Skinner raised his other hand, and Erin threw the jar of acid.

The acid splashed on his face, and he shrieked. The sound went through her bones. She covered her ears as he clawed at his face, and the Antinium did likewise.

But something moved despite the ear-piercing sound. Toren ran out of the darkness and leapt towards Skinner, dagger in hand. He leapt onto Skinner’s face and began stabbing wildly. Skinner tried to shake his head, but he had no neck.

His eyes. Those crimson eyes. Toren clung to Skinner’s face, wriggling into the sunken sockets, tearing and cutting with his dagger as the giant creature tried to shake him free.

Again, Skinner screamed and, this time, ripped Toren away with a huge chunk of flesh. He hurled the skeleton aside.

Toren fell away with something red in his hands. But no blood. Skinner howled and struck after him with a massive hand, but Toren was already gone.

One of Skinner’s eyes was gone. In its place, a huge crater of dead flesh was all that remained. Dead flesh.

It was as if all Skinner was made of were just flesh. There had to be bones or muscles or—or organs. But all Erin had seen as the Workers and she had carved bits out of the creature was skin.

Something struck her from behind. She turned, and a zombie bared rotten teeth, biting at her. Erin struck at him with her knife, but it wasn’t good for killing something already dead. It glanced off bone, and she screamed as the zombie grabbed towards her face.

A blue hand reached out and pulled the zombie backwards. A Ghoul—a long-dead Human with blue, moldy skin—pulled the zombie back.

Erin blinked. The Ghoul tore off the zombie’s head and then rushed at another skeleton. The group of the undead tore into their allies.

“What the—?”

Above her, Skinner was still clutching at his face. He was feeling at his eyes, as if he couldn’t tell one was missing. As his fingers touched the gaps, he shrieked again. His ruined face turned towards Erin.

Skinner swung at Erin, and she dove to one side. She scrambled to her feet and threw the knife in her right hand. It caught a Ghoul in the eye, and it fell back as a Worker dug into Skinner’s side. The Antinium dug at the hard, dead flesh like it dug at dirt, pulling away huge layers and pieces as Skinner thrashed and tried to reach the Worker. But they were too close, too hard to grab at.

More undead ran around Skinner, fighting Erin and the Antinium. But something was happening. Half of them seemed to be trying to kill the other half. Even as Erin watched, two skeletons bore down a Ghoul that had a sword stuck through its belly.

Erin seized the sword and dragged it out. It was heavy and unwieldly in her hands, but she hacked at Skinner’s arm with it. Bits of dead flesh flew everywhere.

Skinner backed up. He was trying to shield his body, but the Workers were everywhere, and the Human girl kept coming.

It shouldn’t be like this. She should be cowering. The Antinium should be dead. And his own undead had turned against him. It was all wrong.

But the girl ignored his fear. The dead had no minds to torment with horrors, and the Antinium were fearless. Skinner could only crush them, struggling to catch the Workers and undead.

He was just a slothful, hulking thing. He had no legs. He didn’t even have good hand-eye coordination. It was only his hands, his flaying touch and his aura of fear that were the threats. And Erin had come far. She refused to run.

She plunged the sword into Skinner’s arm. Deep. Nearly to the hilt. She hit something—something besides dead flesh. Skinner howled in agony.

He backhanded her, and Erin flew. She actually felt herself lift into the air before she hit the ground so hard she forgot everything for a second. When she looked up, he was raising a hand to squash her.

She rolled out of the way just in time. The hand smashed down, and she grabbed at it. There was no time to think. As the arm lifted again and Skinner searched for Erin, she leapt onto its head. The grotesque layers of flesh cushioned her, and she tried not to vomit.

She climbed the dead flesh, feeling it, slick and horribly cold beneath her skin. Erin raised the sword and stabbed down into Skinner’s head, clumsily sawing and hacking with the blade.

Skinner shrieked again. And only now, touching him, did Erin feel the vibrations coming from inside. She pushed the sword deeper and then cut again, levering out a square of compacted skin.

Below her, zombies began trying to pull her off. They crowded around her, but the Workers shoved them back, fighting them. Erin desperately clung to Skinner as he writhed, sawing away like she was cutting wood. She had already given herself two deep slices, but she desperately kept cutting away.

The friendly undead were fighting alongside the Workers now, and half were climbing Skinner as well, tearing into the large creature like she was.

Erin had just pulled another socket of flesh away when she saw something change. Instead of the putrid white and yellowed skin, something else shone in the moonlight.

Something red. Erin stopped. The piece of dead skin peeled away, and something raised its head within Skinner’s body and stared at her. She stared back.

“Oh.”

It was all she could say. Something inside of Skinner raised its head around the skin Erin had chopped away. Something wet and serpentine.

A dark red, eyeless face swung towards Erin. A segmented head with two long…antennae made of flesh seemed to drop down towards her, and a fleshy mouth opened, revealing sharp teeth.

Skinner—the real Skinner, the thing hiding in the puppet of dead flesh—slithered out of the ruined shell. Two long, whip-like tendrils followed the main body, long and thick roots of corded flesh. They were Skinner’s ‘hands’, and they were still coated with the black remains of the Worker he had seized.

Erin let go of the ruined flesh of Skinner’s face just in time. The red worm-thing lashed out, its tendrils scything through the air so fast she heard the whistling sound they made. They caught a Ghoul and cut clean through his torso, shattering bone, breaking flesh.

A Worker caught Erin as she fell. Bird. He pulled Erin away, handing her a knife from one of his hands. Skinner was screaming again, the wormlike parasite emitting that high-pitched wail, only twice as loud now it was out in the open.

“Oh god, oh god, oh god. What is that?”

Bird shook his head as Skinner’s blind head moved back and forth, the fleshy antennae twisting around.

“I do not know. It resembles a Flesh Worm, but larger and it is hiding in the dead skin. It is dangerous. Please. Stay back—”

A tendril shot towards Bird. He choked, and Erin screamed as the tendril lanced through the Antinium’s side. She cut at the tendril with the knife, and Skinner screamed again and pulled the tendril out. Bird collapsed on the ground, bleeding.

Erin threw the knife. It spun towards Skinner’s head, but the red worm dodged the spinning projectile effortlessly.

Two skeletons ran at Skinner. The red worm-creature hissed and lashed out with its tendril arms, scattering both skeletons. He cast around again and struck like a cobra.

A zombie was lifted into the air, and his skin was removed in a sickening ripping sound. Only, Erin was sure that was one of Skinner’s own monsters. The crimson worm slithered back to the layers of skin and pasted the zombie’s flesh over part of the broken skin, as if he were repairing a papier-mâché doll.

“Do not allow it to rebuild. Kill it now.”

Erin couldn’t tell which Worker spoke. But they all ran towards Skinner at once, slashing at the huge segmented creature.

Skinner whirled around, and its tail sent several Antinium sprawling. It seized two Antinium with its tendrils and ripped parts of their bodies away. It was impossibly fast now, and it stabbed two more Antinium as they ran at it.

“No!”

Erin was on her feet. She scrambled for something to throw. Acid. She had to have another jar of acid in the inn. She ran towards it, but Skinner slithered forwards and blocked the entrance. It lowered its head and bit at her.

She ducked. She felt the smooth, sticky body of Skinner just above her, and then it rammed her. She hit the ground, stunned as Skinner raised its head. It regarded her, two antennae probing at her face, and then raised a fleshy tendril to spear her.

Erin couldn’t scream. She just looked at Skinner and held her breath. Waiting. The fleshy appendage rose and then scythed downwards towards her neck.

Death came for Erin and stopped halfway. A sword cut through the air; a pair of silvery blades. They flashed together, and Skinner reeled back, screaming. Yellow, pus-like blood oozed from the cuts, splashing onto Erin as she stared. She looked around.

“Wha—”

Someone was standing over her. An Antinium. But not like any she had ever seen. He had only two arms and a slim, graceful body, not like a Worker’s or a Soldier’s. In his arms, he held two swords she recognized, and he faced Skinner calmly as the red creature writhed and screamed.

Around Erin, black shapes suddenly appeared out of the darkness, grabbing the undead and tearing them apart. Large Soldier Antinium. They ran after Skinner as the red worm retreated. But that wasn’t what captured Erin’s gaze.

She was still staring at the Antinium who had saved her. He was a tall fellow. A Worker, but too big to be a regular one. Some kind of Soldier? A new kind? But—

“Are you unharmed, Miss Solstice?”

For a moment, the voice was just a memory. And then Erin’s eyes widened. Memory. The Antinium tilted his head as he regarded her. Her heart froze in her chest and then began to pound wildly.

It couldn’t be. It was impossible. But the voice was the same. The way he talked was the same. His body was different, but he—

“Impossible.”

“You have fallen. Allow me to help you up.”

She blinked. He reached down and pulled her to her feet. She clutched at him, ignoring Skinner, the undead, and the foul-smelling pus clinging to her clothing. Everything.

“You—you can’t be. I saw you dead. You were dead.”

Her eyes were filling with tears. Part of her was screaming something wordless. Erin reached out, and her fingers shook as she touched the Antinium’s black carapace.

“You—how?”

He smiled. Klbkch of the Free Antinium sheathed his swords and bowed to her.

“True Antinium never truly die. And I…I have a promise to keep.”

The world stopped. The dark night ceased. Light filled Erin’s head. She staggered, and Klbkch caught her with one arm. She felt his cold, hard chitin on her skin. Smooth, hard carapace. An alien’s touch. An unnatural feeling.

But she looked up and saw a friend.

Erin stared at Klbkch. He turned his head and raised his swords. A Ghoul ran onto one of his blades while the other beheaded it. He turned to Erin.

“It is not safe here. Remain behind me, Erin.”

Then he turned, and this time, his swords swung not at Goblins but at a Wight, chopping through a reaching hand, spearing it through the head. Striking left, parrying a jet of bile from a Crypt Lord, sending the liquid splashing back as the silver swords moved.

The Slayer of the Antinium whirled the poison back, splattering the undead, and turned his head again, checking on Erin to make sure she was alright. But this time—he was not guarding her alone.

Erin was frozen there, unable to speak or even form a thought. Klbkch seemed to gesture, and two Soldiers appeared out of the darkness. They surrounded her while Klbkch gave orders.

“Harry the undead. Pursue that creature.”

“Oh!”

Erin stared as the Soldiers ran towards Skinner. The red, fleshy, slithering thing was trying to retreat towards its dead skin, but the Soldiers weren’t letting it. They tried to corner Skinner, but it seized a Soldier, ripped his carapace away, and slithered away from them, down a hill.

Skinner screamed in fury as he ran. And he was running, slithering down the incline, a freakish worm-creature from the depths of hell. But he was retreating, nevertheless. His body of skin was gone. The Soldiers chased him, pounding through the grass.

But they were too slow. Too slow. They’d wounded Skinner. One of his ‘hands’ was missing thanks to Klbkch’s blades, and he was bleeding and torn in a dozen places. But he was too fast. Without his body, he would get away.

“Do not slow! The creature must not be allowed to retreat into the ruins!”

Klbkch thundered at his Soldiers. But even Erin could see it. Skinner was too quick. And he was—it was—

The worm laughed. It let out a ghastly, staccato chittering that made Erin’s skin crawl. It looked back as it wriggled away, as if taunting Erin and the others. It laughed, mocking them.

Erin saw the molted flesh it had abandoned still had pieces of metal clinging to it? Armor? It was vulnerable, now.

Skinner had lost his undead. The Antinium were retaking the city. It had lost its skin—but the flesh-thing was still mocking them. It could rebuild it all. If it got away—

Erin gritted her teeth. If she had a weapon or something to throw, she would have—but it was too far away. All she could hear was that taunting, echoing laughter. That high-pitched sound. She wanted to cover her ears, but they were already splashed by blood and worse. It was so loud, so repetitive. In fact—

“What’s that sound?”

Klbkch cocked his head. Erin looked around. She heard something else, another high-pitched noise echoing across the plains. It wasn’t coming from Skinner. It was something else.

“That sound. What is it?”

It was faint, but growing louder. It was a high-pitched sound, countless…countless voices ululating and screaming wildly.

Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—

Erin knew. She breathed the word.

“Goblins.”

They streamed down one of the hills, countless small shapes lit by torchlight. Light glinted off their weapons and ragtag armor as they ran towards Skinner, faster than it could run. It halted, rearing up onto its serpentine body, seemingly unsure of what to do.

As the Goblins drew nearer, Skinner lanced out. He skewered two Goblins and ripped the skin from another, but there were so many.

One of Skinner’s red, glowing eyes still shone, embedded in the carcass of flesh. That magical light seemed incredulous at the sight it beheld. This? But something else rolled in the depths of Skinner’s gaze. Sudden—abject terror. Erin could feel the fear. The Antinium ignored fear. And Goblins—Goblins were different. Goblins were always afraid.

They swarmed the massive worm, ducking under him as he lashed out with his tendril arms. He bit and screeched, but the Goblins screamed too, louder than him. Skinner tried to wriggle away, but he was caught.

“No way.”

Erin breathed the words incredulously. But the Goblins came on, little green demons with eyes that flashed red in the moonlight. They were just pests. The lowest kind of monster.

But they were quick. And they were everywhere. For each one Skinner killed, five more were stabbing, biting.

They were no match for Skinner. No match for the undead. But they killed the wounded, attacked from behind.

They were cowards like that.

Skinner lashed out. He tore left and right, a fiend, a worm, a parasite living in dead flesh. He had come out of the Ruins, a horror from the past. He had led armies! His armor was gone, though—broken by a traitor. His remaining flesh—ruined. His endless forces—to be brought down by the lowliest monster? Impossible.

But the Goblins stabbed and stabbed, and his vulnerable skin bled.

He collapsed, borne down by the weight of countless small bodies. Skinner thrashed and screamed, but the Goblins drowned out even that. They stabbed, bit, burned him with acid and with fire.

Small jars of acid. They smashed them on Skinner’s side, leaping away as his red skin smoked and he writhed in agony. And fire—a flaming creature of fire was dancing round Skinner, burning him, making the red worm twist as the flames seared his unprotected flesh.

Rags. From her spot on the hill, Erin saw a small Goblin controlling the fire. Her hands glowed red, and her face and body were illuminated by the flame as the spell struck Skinner again and again.

She raised a sword that shone like gold even though it was bronze and stabbed him in the head. Skinner screamed then, and the dead howled with him. Then, slowly, he collapsed.

Skinner, the guardian of the Ruins of Liscor, the death of adventurers and stealer of flesh, opened his mouth to howl one last time. Rags tossed a jar of acid into his mouth, and he convulsed. She pushed the sword deeper, and his body jerked. Once. Twice.

And then he was dead.

The dead stood still, staring at Skinner’s remains. And then, slowly, they moved. Those closest to the living fought on and died. But the others walked away. Back, out of the city, away from the inn. Towards the ruins, down the long dark corridors, into dark places. Back towards the place they had died and risen. Back towards their lair.

Back home.

It was over.



——



Klbkch of the Free Antinium, Prognugator of the Hive, and Senior Guardsman of Liscor sheathed his blades as the last zombie stopped moving. That was who he was today.

Once, he had been called the Slayer of the Antinium. Centenium. True Antinium of Rhir…but today, he was Klbkch of Liscor. For it was Liscor he had come back to defend. Liscor…and an inn.

He stared around the battlefield quietly, making sure all the corpses lay still.

Erin stood next to him, not saying anything either. Just looking.

Death. She saw it everywhere. The corpses, the pieces and blood that stained the ground—

And the friends.

Knight lay against the doorway of her inn, arms stills spread outwards. Other Workers lay around him, still locked in battle. More still dotted the hill. Erin’s eyes picked out each one as the Soldiers collected the bodies.

So much death. So much grief and pain. But at least one small part of the world was right.

Erin stared at Klbkch. Her hands shook, but he took them in his hands and squeezed gently. His chitin was cool and smooth. An alien’s hands. A friend’s hands.

He gestured at her inn, still standing. Light played across its worn exterior, but it was home. Home. A place to rest. A place to be safe.

A place to protect. And after so long, her first guest had come back again.

Tears made Erin’s eyes blurry, but Klbkch just clicked his mandibles together and raised them. The closest thing he could come towards a smile.

They walked to the door in silence. Erin stared down at Knight and gently folded the Antinium’s arms across his chest. Klbkch watched her do it and saw her wipe away the tears.

Erin stood in the doorway and faced Klbkch. He looked at her and saw a girl. Perhaps a woman by some standards, but someone young. Her clothes were covered in blood and gore, and she was cut in places, bruised in others. She had been aged by violence and death and loss. But something still shone in them. Something bright.

There were many things Klbkch could have said. But none were quite right, quite fitting. So he said the only thing he could.

“Greetings, Erin Solstice. May I come in?”

And she smiled and wept and for a moment—

Everything was right again.





1.63


Ryoka Griffin was in sight of Liscor when she saw the smoke and found the bodies.

She came across the Gnolls so suddenly she barely stopped in time. A few Goblins picking past the Shield Spiders already trying to drag the corpses into a pit-nest leapt away, screeching in alarm. Ryoka looked around for another ambush—but they just hefted their spears and armor and horsemeat and fled.

Horsemeat? Ryoka’s stomach lurched, and she nearly vomited as she gagged. She saw the remnants of the horses. And the Gnolls.

The Shield Spiders had been at them at least a day. Ryoka turned away, then saw the smoke.

“No. Did she do this? Did—”

Gazi the Omniscient? She was nowhere to be seen. The terrifying Named-rank adventurer that Ryoka had seen pursuing the Gnolls…

There was no way to prove what had happened. Not now. The Gnolls were stripped of armor and weapons. Ryoka remembered the grinning warrior with the silver fang on his fur. Rometh. She looked for him—

Nothing. There was just a horror of fur and blood and—insects. Spiders, competing with the Acid Flies that made the innards of the corpses glow. The flies and spiders ignored each other. The Shield Spiders would not try to eat the deadly flies. Both offended her to her core. Ryoka stomped a tiny spider scuttling towards a furred hand matted in blood.

“Get away from them. Get—”

She saw the milling cascade of limbs turn on her and ran as she heard the chittering. She would have gone back—but then she saw the smoke.

It rose ever higher from Liscor in the distance. She could not see the city well from the hill and valley where she had found the Gnolls. But she knew where it was.

“No. Nonono. It wasn’t her, was it?”

There was no way. But then—what about the Horns? Ryoka turned back to the bodies. But she couldn’t kill the spiders. If she came back, she might try to get someone to bury them. But…

“Ceria? Calruz?”

Ryoka began to run faster. She didn’t know that someone had observed her coming through the Floodplains. A silent woman with a claymore stood miles away and watched as Ryoka ran. Ran—seeking her friends.

But she was too late. The day Ryoka arrived was the day after Skinner died. She arrived as the funeral pyres were still burning the undead to ash. She saw the churned earth around Liscor and a ways away—a battered building that drew her eye. Torn and damaged. But standing.

An inn.



——



[Innkeeper Level 18!]

[Skill – Immunity: Alcohol obtained!]

[Skill – Quick Recovery obtained!]



Erin didn’t know that she’d slept. She raised her head and realized she was sitting down. Dawn had come, but she had only drifted off for a second.

The sky was still mostly dark. But light still illuminated the grasslands. Dancing shadows. Twisting flames.

Fire.

The Antinium were burning the dead. All of them. They had created a huge pyre of bodies and set it alight. The terrible, suffocating smoke fanned away from the inn, but Erin’s eyes still burned. Or perhaps it was just her grief.

The bodies of the Workers were gone. Sometime when she hadn’t been watching, the Soldiers had taken them away. Erin had asked one of the surviving Workers—Bird—where they had gone. He told her she didn’t want to know.

Now, Bird sat on the ground outside of the first bonfire, so vast and hot that it was baking the ground, splitting the earth and threatening to set the cold grass on fire. The heat and light reflected off his armor. Green blood had dried from terrible bites that had torn into his chest and arms.

But the Worker just sat there, staring up at the twisting column of smoke. It rose like some mournful creature, great and terrible and beautiful. But for the stench. Into that dark sky turning brighter with each second. Bird saw the beauty of it.

Erin did too—but it hurt too much for her to take in his simple, childish wonder. Even now, the other Workers that had lived looked up at the sky as if it could make up for that dark, horrific night. As if there were something still to believe in.

What would happen to them? What came next?

She was afraid to ask more. Even of Klbkch. He had barely left her side all night. Now, he stood on the hill, staring down at a large shape several hundred meters away.

Erin got up and walked to his side. He turned his head slightly, but continued looking down. Erin stared at the red, elongated form of the creature that had lived in dead flesh and led an army of the dead. It was still surrounded by the Goblins that had felled it. Many had paid with their lives. But many more were claiming victory, looting the undead and milling around. They had even torn the ruined pieces of armor away and were trying to beat the scraps into tools and armor for themselves.

Something was different about Skinner’s body this morning. He seemed…diminished. Erin stared down as the Goblins milled around him, and then she realized what was going on.

“Are they…eating it?”

“Yes.”

Her stomach roiled. But Klbkch was unmoved, and so too were the Goblins. They tore into the red body of Skinner, tearing him apart, drinking the fluids and—

She couldn’t watch. Erin went back to her inn and threw up in the outhouse. It was still standing, at least. It needed repairs. Everything needed repairs.

She sat on the toilet Pawn and the other Antinium had built and rested her head in her hands. She was so tired, still. She would have given everything to sleep. But sleep was a luxury, and she owed a debt of pain.

First things first. Her…level. Yes, she’d leveled up three times. Was that a lot? Probably. And she had new skills.

They were an [Innkeeper]’s skills. And they were worthless. Trash.

“Shit.”

Yes. Erin glanced at the wood walls of the outhouse. Less than crap. That was how she felt about her levels and skills at the moment.

It felt wrong to level when her friends had died. It felt wrong to be stronger in exchange for killing things. But there was nothing Erin could do about it. She felt like vomiting or punching a hole in the wall of the outhouse. She nearly did, but stopped herself.

Erin walked back out and stood next to Klbkch. After a while, she had the courage to ask him what she couldn’t last night.

“How many?”

He looked at her, and Erin wondered if he was going to lie. But after a second, he spoke again.

She listened to the numbers. When they were just numbers, it didn’t seem so bad. But when she stared at the bodies, it was too terrible to be counted.

Twenty-seven Goblins lay in the grass. Too many. Even in Skinner’s last moments, he had killed with terrible ease.

Of the thirty-two Workers that had chosen to save her, four remained. Bird, Garry, Belgrade, and Anand. They lay in her inn or sat propped up, wounds covered by some kind of sticky red substance. The Antinium had little in the way of medicine, but they were tough. They would heal.

Less than a hundred people had died around Erin’s inn. Too many, but in the city, it had been worse, or so Klbkch told her.

“Over two hundred guardsmen and nearly a thousand civilians perished before the Hive was mobilized. Had they broken the Watch Captain’s lines, the number would be tenfold despite our sortie. She acted very bravely.”

She hadn’t even known there were that many guardsmen in the city. But they’d had healing potions and armor and—it was just a number.

“How many Antinium? Your people…?”

“Three hundred sixty-five Soldiers and a hundred and forty-seven Workers. Nearly half again as many are wounded, but the losses were quite minimal.”

“…Really?”

She couldn’t imagine that many. The number, yes. But so many…if she thought of each one being a member of her chess club, it was too many. One was too many to call minimal.

Yet Klbkch seemed to think it was some kind of grand victory.

He shrugged.

“A war would be tenfold higher at the very least. A hundredfold. It was a small price to pay and would have been smaller still had my predecessor not erred. Had we fought alongside the Watch, we would have pushed the undead back without taking nearly so many losses. Had they held the gates, less than a hundred might have died.”

“Why didn’t you, then? I mean—he. Ksmvr. Ksmvr…didn’t fight?”

A pause. Klbkch clicked his mandibles softly. He made her want to hug him with all her strength, and he was simultaneously frightening. She had seen him cutting down undead after undead, and now she understood his nickname.

Slayer. This morning, he talked as if he had merely had a long night. He had—something of Gazi in him. And his voice was cold as it referred to his replacement.

“Ksmvr believed the Queen had to be protected above all else. He withdrew all Soldiers into the Hive while she finished the Rite of Anastases.”

“Why did he do that? What Rite?”

“The process to revive me. It was a delicate matter that occupied the Queen’s full attention. Without her guidance, Ksmvr did what he deemed best. He chose wrongly.”

“Oh.”

Klbkch nodded calmly. He went on, listing the things he had to do on one hand.

“There is much that must be done. Reparations must be made to the city. The Antinium did not honor their promise. We must rebuild, put up barriers outside the Ruins.”

“And you’re going to do it? You’re the new Prognugator? Or does Ksmvr still have that job?”

“He does not.”

Klbkch shook his head as he watched a Soldier dragging a body towards the burning heap.

“Ksmvr was a fool. He nearly cost the Hive the city, our position here and status across the continent, and…other assets. I will deal with him soon enough.”

For a while, Erin and the Antinium watched the dead burn. She swayed on her feet. Klbkch watched in silence.

“Yes. Many things.”

“Klbkch?”

“Yes, Erin?”

“How did you come back?”

“It is called the Rite of Anastases. It is a…process which the Queen of the Antinium may undertake. It allows the dead to be reborn into a new body. A secret of the Antinium.”

“Oh.”

Erin thought about that for a second.

“Okay. I understand. I think. Then…does that mean you can revive the others who died?”

“Others? Ah. You mean the individuals who were once Workers. No.”

“Why not?”

He hesitated.

“In truth, only a Prognugator would be considered…worthy of the effort and time required for such an act. Moreover, it is not something done lightly. There are consequences. I have lost ten levels in every class. A considerable setback, although my new body reduces the impact on my abilities quite significantly. And the time it took—my Queen labored for nearly two weeks without rest to restore my being.”

“That’s a lot of work.”

“There were other material costs as well. The Hive would not be able to support such an action more than once or twice. The others—”

“I get it.”

It nearly didn’t hurt. Nearly. But it was just another cut in a heart bleeding from a thousand places.

“They died well. I would not have expected mere—they rose above what they were. For that, I honor them.”

“Thanks.”

For once, Klbkch didn’t seem to know how to reply. Erin looked at him. He was as he had been, but different.

“What’s with the new body? Upgrades?”

He nodded.

“The Prognugator role was never meant for specialized action. Moreover, it was thought that the Worker form would allow a Prognugator to blend in to reduce the dangers of assassination during times of war. This new form will greatly improve my abilities.”

“Two arms are better than four?”

“Yes. I am swifter, more mobile, and possess several changes to my anatomy not incorporated into other Antinium. The older design of four arms was inefficient. This new body will serve me better.”

“Harder, better, faster, stronger, huh?”

“That is broadly correct, yes.”

“Okay.”

Klbkch was watching her. Erin knew, even if he didn’t have pupils to follow her. He hadn’t really let her leave his sight since that night. She was so tired.

“Thanks for saving me. Really.”

“It was nothing.”

“It was something.”

“Yes.”

She looked at him. Just the same as always. And then she looked at her inn. She looked at the broken wood, at the marks of violence, and at the place where a Worker named Knight had died. She looked at the dead and the Soldiers. She remembered a half-Elf, a Minotaur, a Drake obsessed with chess, and a bunch of smiling faces.

Klbkch saw Erin fold up and fall backwards. He tried to catch her, but she thumped back into the soft grass.

“Miss Solstice. Are you alright?”

Erin smiled emptily as Klbkch hovered over her. She raised one hand and let it fall.

“I’m just going to lie down for a while.”

She lay in the trampled grass as the Goblins feasted, listening to the dead burn.

Erin wept.



——



Selys sat in the Adventurer’s Guild, listening to Zevara argue with the guildmaster. Her grandmother. Not argue, really. Tekshia wanted to give out rewards to the people who had killed monsters. Zevara wanted her Watch to be included in that number, to hand out bonuses to them.

Tekshia told Zevara to take it up with the Council because the Adventurer’s Guild didn’t have enough funding. Zevara insisted she wanted that on top of a bonus from the Council to all the [Guards] who’d risked their lives.

This was background noise to Selys. She stared dreamily at her bandaged wrist and felt the healing cuts on her legs and torso burning and itching.

Even after a day, Liscor was silent. The streets were still busy, and the people still spoke. But it was a different place. Death and destruction had taken their toll, and people still mourned.

But they had survived. They had all come out stronger for their ordeals. Selys was now a [Warrior] and had gained several levels in her [Hunter] class. It was a wonderful thing, especially since she hadn’t leveled in a month.

But she was still tired. Then the reasonable debate turned into a full-blown argument. Selys turned her head as Zevara brought something else up, and this time, Tekshia refused to even hear her out.

“I want those Humans responsible for unleashing the undead held accountable!”

The Captain of the Watch was exhausted, bloody, and had saved Liscor. Selys knew her if not in person, then by reputation. She was a good leader, and she had saved countless lives during the battle with the undead. Her voice was raw, and she coughed every few words now.

Ancestor-touched. Dragon’s child.

Oldblood.

Selys thought the words, but didn’t say them out loud. Zevara had breathed fire to hold the undead back. She was a hero. But she was wrong in this.

“All the adventurers who went in are dead. Only a handful remain, and they’re in no condition to repay anyone for anything. They’ve suffered enough. Leave them alone.”

The Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor, an elderly Drake with dusky purple scales, shot back when Zevara stopped to breathe. The Drake Captain coughed a few times and glared at the old Drake, but she was unmoved. She might have bullied someone else.

But the old Drake had fought as well and saved just as many lives. She leaned on her staff this morning, looking tired. She’d finished three cups of tea Selys had brewed, and she barred Zevara’s way with her spear.

“They have nothing. Nothing will be gained from blaming them, either. The Council was glad enough when they volunteered to explore the ruins. This is on their tails as much as ours.”

“The Council wants to hold someone responsible. And if it won’t be the adventurers, it will be this Guild. You choose which one.”

Selys winced, but her grandmother just sighed.

“Stubborn child. If you really wish to push this—Selys!”

Selys jumped and tried to shuffle some papers around. Her grandmother raised her voice.

“Take Zevara to the leader of the adventurers she wants to blame so badly. Let her make her case there.”

That clearly wasn’t what Zevara had been expecting. The taller Drake hesitated when Selys poked her head around the corner.

“Um. Hi. Follow me, Watch Captain.”

She led Zevara up the stairs and into a part of the Guild reserved for injured adventurers or those in need of a place to sleep for a night. It was a section of the second floor, only large enough to house three separate adventurers at a time. And one room was occupied.

Selys pushed open the door carefully. Zevara’s breath caught as the door swung open to reveal the lone occupant.

A Human sat in a white bed, staring emptily out one window. It was a bright day with clear skies in Liscor. A bit chilly given it was winter, but winter had not yet arrived, and Yvlon Byres took no notice of the temperature.

She paid no attention to anything at all, really.

Half of the skin on her face had been torn away. Her long blonde hair was ragged; her fair skin cut and marred. She stared empty-eyed through the window, sitting and looking at nothing.

Her armor had been torn to shreds when they’d cut her out of it. Even now, Selys could remember the Human woman screaming. But now she was silent. It was little better.

“Human.”

Yvlon didn’t move. She didn’t blink. Zevara called out a few times, but Yvlon was still. The Watch Captain hesitated.

“If you’re going to try and shake her, you might as well give up. She doesn’t respond.”

Zevara turned towards the elderly drake as Selys rearranged the pillow around Yvlon, trying not to touch the female Human. She avoided the empty stare as well as Zevara, and her grandmother whispered.

“She has no coin or anything else. Everything she owned was lost in the Ruins. Her comrades, her pride, her health—what more would you take from her, good Captain?”

Zevara glared down at the older Drake, lips tight, tail thrashing.

“Someone must pay.”

“Someone must. But I don’t believe she or any of the adventurers has enough coin to cover the costs.”

Zevara looked back at Yvlon. The adventurer sat quietly in bed, back straight, hands folded. Face scarred.

The Watch Captain shook her head. She had a million things to do. Relc was patrolling for any undead while the rest of the guardsmen rebuilt. She had to go through the roster of wounded and dead, focus on rebuilding the city, address the Antinium issue for the Council.

She turned her heel. It was pointless to waste her time here arguing with a Drake three times as old as she was. Zevara strode away and turned her head only once.

Yvlon stared into the blue sky, a few feet away and a thousand miles gone. Zevara stared into her empty eyes and left.



——



Toren sat on the roof of the inn, staring at nothing and everything at the same time. Below him, Erin pounded away with a hammer, covering up broken windows with boards. She’d banned him from helping the second time he’d put a hole in a wall.

He hadn’t meant to. But on the other hand, he’d meant to. Some part of Toren knew that was the only way to earn a reprieve. And he wanted one. For the first time, he wanted to stop and think.

The skeleton sat on the roof, staring out at the empty plains. From here, he could see Liscor in the distance. The city seemed whole, and it was rebuilding quickly, according to Erin. But much like the area around the inn, marks of the battle still remained.

The battle. Toren still remembered Skinner, still remembered the countless enemies and only the pure joy of battle coupled with the need to keep Erin safe. It had been glorious, liberating.

And all too short.

It was a curious thing. He had leveled, and in doing so, he had become more. More…himself. He could think, act, feel on a level he had not previously.

Level 11.

That was what he was. It was…eight levels? Yes, a huge leap. But he had earned each one. The part of Toren that thought and remembered wondered if it was because he had wounded the large flesh-stealing creature so badly. That and the countless number of his brethren he had slain had done it.

He wondered how many levels the small Goblin had gained. How many levels her tribe had gained. It was meaningless, and yet it was not. Why should he care what level a Goblin was? Unless she was a threat, it was meaningless.

But some part of Toren wondered. And it was that part which had awakened after the battle as he had gained those levels. He had begun to think, and that was a mystery in itself. A welcome one to be sure, but vexing nonetheless.

Now, he could ask why he obeyed. Now, he could think of Erin as a person, not just as a master. Now, he could wonder…

The red gemstone turned in his skeletal hands. Toren could sense the magic contained within. He had taken it from the creature of skin, plucked it away. It had powerful magic. It had fear; he understood that much. But how might he use it? Should he use it? Should he give it to Erin?

No. Yes. Perhaps. It was not so simple anymore. Toren studied the gemstone. It was red, darker red than crimson. The red of dried blood and death. He had taken it from Skinner; he didn’t know where its twin had gone. But one was all he needed.

Needed…for what exactly? Toren wasn’t sure, but he was beginning to understand. Something was calling to him. He didn’t know what yet, but he would in time. If he had more levels, he would understand more. And when he did, perhaps he would think more. Perhaps he would question more. And then when he had levelled enough—

“Hey, Toren! Get your bony butt down here and help me lift this thing!”

A voice from below. His master’s. Or was it mistresses’? He had had a master, once. The mage called Pisces. But he was no longer a master. Was Erin a master? Or a mistress? Or was she neither? Another question.

He had so many. But not enough time to consider them, and Erin was beginning to yell again.

Toren got up without sighing. Skeletons didn’t sigh. But he looked at the red crimson eye in his hand. She would not want it. She would take it away. Therefore, he had thought about what to do.

Carefully, very carefully, he opened his mouth and placed the gem inside. It was quite simple. A bit of sticky tar used for repairing the inn’s roof and it could be stored in the hollow of his skull, where brains were normally kept. That way no one would see it.

It was the [Tactician] part of him that suggested it, and the rest of him agreed. Toren made sure the gemstone was firmly tucked away and stuck in place before he leapt from the rooftop. He was stronger now, that was clear. Strong enough to help Erin wrestle the planks of wood into place and hold them there while she hammered nails haphazardly into the wood.

Stronger, yes, and more aware. But what would that lead to? What would he become?

For the first time, Toren asked these questions. And for the first time, he was curious to find out the answer.

A bit of crimson light flashed in the blue flames of his eyes. Only for a second.



——



The morning lengthened on, and many important things happened. Just like yesterday and the day before that. They were important things, surely, for each person who experienced them thought of themselves as important.

In his hiding place in the plains, Pisces dragged away another body he had managed to save from the purging flames. It was an effort to bring them so far, but worth it. He propped the Ghoul’s headless body against a wall and studied the piece of the dead Crypt Lord that occupied most of the dirt cave. He smiled gleefully, as a child about to unwrap a present might. But he wavered a moment before he tried to copy the design wholesale.

There was love of death and…he stared at the Crypt Lord’s face and remembered how the undead had poured in.

“It should be more beautiful than that. It must be. I have to prove to her why I am different. Why I am—better.”

That was all he said. Then he continued his studies.



——



Somehow, after that terrible night of death and carnage, the world was still turning on. Liscor even had visitors coming through the gates. The Watch was busy checking for remaining undead and helping clear the rubble, but the presence on the walls of Liscor was strong.

It meant it was easier to steal and cause trouble if you were a thief. Most of Liscor’s underworld criminals were inactive, though, perhaps counting how close they too had come to being slaughtered.

Yet a young woman, a Human girl, a thief—crouched in an alleyway, scarfing down baked treats she’d stolen from a bakery window. She was figuring out what she needed next. She wouldn’t have cared if the undead had killed all the filthy lizards and furry half-breeds in the city. She was starving, alone, and desperate.

Her head only rose when a vehicle rolled past the mouth of the alley. The girl crept forwards—and her eyes went wide. She stared at the pinkest carriage she had ever seen in her life, which Drakes and Gnolls glanced up at.

Some recognized it, yet vaguely, for it had never come to Liscor before. But the girl—she dropped one of her half-eaten rolls and ran, shouting.

“Magnolia! Magnolia Reinhart! It’s me!”

She ran, waving her hands, as the carriage navigated the streets and pedestrians. The driver turned his head back—and the young woman with dyed blonde hair already revealing fiery red roots threw back a hood, lifting a hand. She expected to be recognized.

A window rolled down, and for a second, she caught a glimpse of the woman inside.

Lady Magnolia Reinhart was speaking to the air, through a [Communication] spell so powerful that the girl couldn’t see who she was talking to. She glanced out, and the young woman saw her gaze pass absently over her face. Magnolia stared behind her—then calmly rolled the window back up.

The carriage accelerated. The thief ran after it, screaming now, but it just rolled away until she lost it in the streets. She only gave up when one of the Gnoll [Guardswomen] asked if something was wrong. Then she fled, cursing Magnolia’s name.



——



Ressa looked back through the one-way glass window enchanted to be proof against arrows and magic and casual observers. She had seen the young woman and recognized her.

“She made it all the way here. That’s actually commendable. Was that—kind?”

Her voice was careful, and the normally taciturn [Maid] looked up as Magnolia Reinhart lifted a finger. The [Lady] glanced up, and she spoke to a sulking figure in the air.

“One moment, Teriarch. Ressa—I am speaking to an old man with difficulties in splitting his attention. Really, do you think this is appropriate?”

The [Maid] just folded her arms and glanced pointedly behind her where the young woman had been.

“Old man? You go too far, child. First, you give me orders to find people as if I were your personal [Diviner]. Then you lecture me on—”

Magnolia muted the spell with a finger. She looked back as well, though the ‘thief’ had long vanished. Her face was…inhospitable in this moment.

Tight. She looked so pained that Ressa almost forgave her uncharitableness. The [Lady] took another deep breath.

“That girl. What of her, Ressa? Yes, I saw her. Yes, she made it far. Commendable in some respects.”

“She might die out here. She didn’t look like she was doing well. Theofore claims she’s mostly stealing.”

Magnolia made a disgusted sound as she tapped her lips.

“Has she considered working? One imagines she could.”

“No…nor does she seem keen on speaking with any Drakes or Gnolls. But her gold’s run out.”

“She has quite a lot on her. If I took her in, then what? She would be the most insufferable headache imaginable. To me, personally, to you…”

Ressa grimaced, and Magnolia went on. Teriarch had huffily closed the spell when he realized he was muted. Typical.

The carriage was slowing, and she wasn’t looking behind her. Only ahead at the two-story building they’d come to. The sign was simple, ubiquitous…and Magnolia saw the driver leap out and open the door for her. But she hesitated as Ressa got out. Her eyes fixed on that sign, and she paused a second.

Adventurer’s Guild.

When she did leave the carriage, Magnolia nodded to the man standing in his prim suit, attracting stares from the Drakes and Gnolls.

“Thank you, Reynold. I—I may take a while.”

“Very good, Lady Reinhart. I shall take the carriage around back.”

He stepped back, and Magnolia looked into the guild as a [Receptionist] poked her head over the counter and saw two more [Maids] appear and hold the doors open. Selys’ jaw dropped, but Magnolia just stared inside, then turned.

“Ressa. I have so much to do. And so little time for someone who does nothing with everything. I would rather…”

Her gaze flitted towards the staircase as Guildmistress Tekshia herself stomped over, facing Magnolia and Ressa warily. Magnolia’s lips moved.

“…I would rather take all my time for those who try for everything. Should I have meddled?”

She looked lost, a moment, and Ressa stared at her mistress in silence.

“You let them try.”

“Yes.”

That was all Magnolia said. Then she turned and smiled with a faraway look at Tekshia, and Selys, eyes wide, heard the [Lady]’s voice.

“Guildmistress.”

“Lady Reinhart. Is that how I should address you?”

The woman laughed. That laugh was fake, polite—and her eyes were still elsewhere. Above. She looked up those stairs, and Tekshia’s glance at her became knowing.

“Oh. Are you here for your guest? If you want to take her…”

“No. No, Guildmistress. I am not here. In fact, I should be grateful if you let me tarry a moment…then I will depart. Without interfering in your city or falling afoul of your Council. I know that I am not—well liked here.”

“Some wouldn’t mind your presence. I—personally think you’re a dangerous distraction. But fine. You have a right to see her. You two are related, aren’t you?”

“Distantly.”

Magnolia began to walk for the stairs, ignoring everyone else. A few of the adventurers seemed to realize she was important, but Magnolia really had come like a ghost. She only halted when Tekshia put her spear out to block her. Ressa had a hand on the spear’s haft—and the two, Drake and Human, stared at each other.

“Is something wrong, Guildmistress? I hope you do not wish to bring up—the past at this moment.”

“Not at all.”

The Drake held Magnolia’s gaze. Then she held out a claw.

“—I just thought that if you were here, you could settle this young woman’s accommodations. Especially if you aren’t taking her. Liscor is rebuilding, and the Adventurer’s Guild doesn’t take charity.”

Magnolia’s eyes flickered. For a moment, they looked—upset. Then she exhaled. She looked about the city, where Drakes and Gnolls were rebuilding. She nodded to Ressa, and the [Maid], expressionless, dipped a hand into a bag of holding and produced a note. Magnolia nodded to her, and the [Maid] scribbled on it before producing a wax seal and her sapphire-silver Runner’s seal.

“Will—this do? For lodging?”

Tekshia regarded the note and snatched it from Ressa’s hand.

“I think the Watch Captain will appreciate it. It will keep her from jailing the survivors. Selys, send a Runner for the Merchant’s Guild and make a list of the homes that got wrecked. And the families that lost members of the Watch. That idiot, Lism, might know about children.”

“Y-yes, Grandmother.”

“It’s Guildmaster. This way, Reinhart. You won’t take her?”

One old, yellow eye, still sharp as an edge of topaz, swung to regard Magnolia. The [Lady] blinked.

It was almost as if she hadn’t been paying attention, despite the sum that was making Selys’ eyes pop and hold onto the little card like it was an artifact. She looked at Tekshia—and smiled. This time, the smile seemed as if someone had stabbed her.

“No. I let my family make their own choices, for better or worse. I do not interfere. Would you think less of me for that?”

The [Guildmistress] looked Magnolia in the eyes, then at her granddaughter.

“I don’t bother with holding tails. I let the young make their own mistakes. It worked with me.”

“How else would they rise?”

The Human woman agreed absently. She followed Tekshia up the stairs to the few guest rooms the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor had. But she stopped at the door as Tekshia opened it. She whispered, then.

“—If only I could catch them as they fell.”

Then she walked into that room and sat down. A blank-faced young woman with blonde hair stared past her. She didn’t react as Magnolia Reinhart sat on a stool that Ressa found, arranging her skirts. Magnolia reached out as Tekshia glanced at them—then closed the door.

“Yvlon? My dear—it’s me. Can you hear me?”

There was no response. Just a blank, blue stare as lost as the sun amidst the clouds. Magnolia glanced at the skin torn from her face.

“Ressa, can you…? An ointment or something?”

“She may want the scar.”

Magnolia’s eyes flashed—then she moderated her tone.

“A scar will haunt her—perhaps she will want it. But one cannot be undone. Something, Ressa.”

“Very well.”

The [Maid] fussed around at her belt, then produced a poultice, not a healing potion, and dabbed it carefully across the wound. Yvlon shivered—but it was an automatic reaction. There was no one behind those blue eyes. Her hand was limp. Magnolia sat there, speaking, but there…there was no reaction.

“Will she recover, Ressa? She looks as Ulva did after Petra died.”

“I can’t say. She’s tough. Her entire family is.”

Done, Ressa closed the lid on the jar and stood. Yvlon kept staring out the window as Magnolia squeezed her hand tighter. She sat, hearing the Adventurer’s Guild move around her, the banging in the distance of [Carpenters], and occasionally, watching as Yvlon Byres blinked.

“I am sorry, Yvlon. I am so…I hoped you would come out of there covered in glory. I did not know. I cannot be everywhere. I should be, but I am one woman. Even now, you will not see me for some time. I am going north. Leaving all of you to your fates.”

She waited, perhaps hoping that blank face would turn to her and show something angry. Blue eyes…not green like emeralds, but Magnolia Reinhart spoke softly.

“You did all you could. You…were so brave. I am sure you were. If I could have—I always hope you succeed. You did not need me. That was what I thought. I am an unkind [Lady] of House Reinhart because I always expect it of you and all the others. I truly did think I would see you at a party in your honor. Now, I wish I could stay. But…”

She looked north. Yvlon sat there, her blonde hair untidy. Someone had helped cut her out of the remains of her silver armor. She looked perfectly fine for the nightmare she had escaped—save for the scar of flesh ripped from her features. Ressa’s ointment covered it, orange and smelling faintly acrid.

The white sheets, the calm, little guest room looked too perfect for the scar. The city, likewise, almost pleasant until you saw how people mourned in the streets in knots and how the smell of dead flesh and the acrid burning of the corpses lingered in the air.

The sunlight fell across Magnolia’s own dirtier blonde hair. She did not look like a young woman in her prime, an adventurer filled with dreams of fame and success like Yvlon had but a day ago. Her gaze seemed to be, like the city, no longer as pure.

Scarred. As if the wound on Yvlon’s face were long healed and a figment captured in Magnolia’s stare. All of that followed her head as it looked north. As if tracing a line of responsibility for her to follow. Her voice was low as she spoke, enunciating each word into the small room such that it felt like they left a trail. Echoing.

“…There are those who did not seek this. Something is happening, Yvlon. I need to seek it out. This time—I can’t be too late.”

She gazed back at Yvlon, and her hand squeezed tight on the yong woman’s.

“You have lost your team. Your friends. This moment must seem unbearable.”

Even now, Yvlon’s face never changed. But she flinched, and Magnolia Reinhart stood there, her own eyes glittering. Cold, green diamonds. Not merciless—pained, but harsh.

“You have lost more than you can dream. Yet, and yet, Yvlon Byres—mourn. Weep. Sit there as long as you must. But Izril will demand you to one day rise again and stand. You must. You will.”

Her gaze sought something in Yvlon’s expression—with such a painful—selfishness. As if she hoped that the young woman’s gaze would sharpen within a day of all of this. But nothing changed, and after six minutes, Magnolia slowly let go of Yvlon’s hand. She rose, painfully, trying to linger—but she did rise.

“I wish I could stay.”

Then she turned, hesitated by the doorframe—and spoke quietly to her [Maid]. Magnolia Reinhart looked back once, her eyes lighting on Yvlon’s face a mix of emotions she could not express in mere words. Then she was gone, her carriage rolling north. She could not undo time for Yvlon. So she spent only a moment here.

And still—the city kept breathing. It kept moving as Yvlon Byres blankly stared out the window, seeing nothing at all. People.

Changing.



——



Relc patrolled the city; Ksmvr knelt trembling before his wroth Queen. Garia ran her deliveries, wondering all the while where her friend had gone. And more. More people carried out their lives and shaped the world in ways small and large.

But one girl ran through the grass, tired, exhausted. She had run for two days, running back through the grass, north along seldom-used roads from the Blood Fields. She had left in anger and despair. But as morning came over Liscor—

Ryoka returned.



——



It took her two hours to get to the city through the Floodplains. When she arrived, Ryoka stopped and stared a while. She wandered into the city and smelled burnt flesh, walked past destroyed homes, and heard those mourning the dead. She came to the Adventurer’s Guild in a daze, never seeing the pink carriage already pulling out the northern gates.

She asked about her friends. She asked about Ceria and Calruz and Gerial and Sostrom. She listened and felt the world drop away.

The Drake receptionist took her to a small room with a small bed. She opened the door, and Ryoka sat next to Yvlon for a while. The other girl’s eyes were blank, and she scratched at the scarred flesh on her face. Healing potions could close a lot of wounds. But sometimes…

After a while, Ryoka stood up. Yvlon paid no notice. The girl walked out of the guild and out of the city. She walked towards the ruins and saw the entrance had been blockaded. Twenty giant ant-men stood in front of a wall of dirt, barring entry.

She watched them until it was too much to bear. Ryoka left the ruins and walked through the long grass outside of Liscor. She walked until she was lost among the grass, walking and walking without a purpose.

Ryoka never noticed the Goblin that rose out of the grass, following her. She never noticed the large rock that moved towards her slowly. She walked on, staring at the sky.

She did not cry. She did not rage. She was empty. Emptiness became her.

Guilt and sadness was the air she breathed. Death walked next to her and whispered in her ear. Ryoka walked and scarcely thought.

When it was all too much, Ryoka stopped. The Goblin drew a sharp knife from his side, and the moving stone crept up on both Goblin and Humans, unnoticed.

Ryoka took a deep breath. She stood in the plains and screamed. The moving boulder jerked. The Goblin froze.

Large, leathery birds rose out of the grass in panic. They flew away as the Goblin leapt back, clapping his hands to his ears, and the Rock Crab scuttled back in alarm. The sound pierced the air, travelled miles, and made travellers on the road look up at the sky.

Ryoka screamed until she could bear it no more. She punched at the ground wildly, tore at her own hair. She screamed and screamed until her body was unable to scream any more.

Then Ryoka stopped.

Her throat was raw, and she coughed and tasted blood. Ryoka had to sip from one of the healing potions she’d bought before she could breathe without agony.

She walked on, despairing. Ryoka tripped over a rock and fell face-first onto the ground. She lay there a while. Empty.

After a while, her stomach growled. Ryoka ignored it.

She lay on the ground, cursing it. She cursed the blue sky and the citizens of Liscor and the adventurers. She cursed the undead, the monster that had killed her friends. She cursed the dead gods, the ones she had known, the world she now lived in, and the one she had come from. She cursed all things and especially herself.

This is who she was. This is who she had been. Ryoka was filled with that same self-loathing she had gone to the Bloodfields with. But she had come back all this way, survived Persua and it all so she could…

Apologize. Apologize to whom? They were gone. Yvlon was the only survivor, and she hadn’t moved a muscle as Ryoka talked to her. Ryoka’s tears trickled into the grass. She should never have gone.

She should have come back sooner. Ryoka lay there for what must have been an hour as the Goblin with the knife stared at her. She was utterly defenseless.

The knife-Goblin looked at Ryoka, then at the distant Goblins celebrating their victory over Skinner. It stared at the little Chieftain, Rags, and then at that broken inn on a hill. All these things the Goblin weighed. Did they matter at all?

It looked at the tears falling from the young woman. And the Goblin—put away its knife. He walked away, and Ryoka lay there. Weeping into the grass.



——



After a while, her stomach growled again. This time, Ryoka listened and sat up.

She scrubbed at her face with handfuls of grass and looked around. Evening. She was starving and lost. But when she looked towards Liscor, she saw a building on a hill. When Ryoka drew closer, she saw it was an inn.

Like the city, it had been touched by death and battle. The inn was cracked in places, broken in others. The ground was churned in places; the soil upturned and grass trampled. An outhouse around back had been smashed in one part.

Everything had been hastily patched back up. Ryoka eyed the boards nailed clumsily together. They spoke of life, and she was starving.

She looked up at the sign above the inn.

The Wandering Inn. Like the rest of the building, the words were scratched in places, and green blood had dried on part of the sign.

Yet still the inn stood. It drew Ryoka, although she couldn’t say why. Here was a place to rest. A place to eat, perhaps. Or just a place to wait until the pain went away.

It would do.

Ryoka put her hand on the door and hesitated. She stared at the half-ruined building. Then she turned away.

If her friends had been inside, laughing and celebrating their near escape or even wounded, in need of help, Ryoka would have pushed that door in and come in shyly, begging forgiveness. But they were gone. She had been told this was where they were staying. What was there inside?

Nothing for her. Ryoka stepped back. Her heart still hurt too much for words, much less mundane company. Ryoka turned, ignoring her stomach. She was empty.

She walked down the slope, not knowing where she was going. Perhaps north. Perhaps nowhere. She just had to run. Run, and run.

Because there was nothing left to stop for anymore.

Ryoka took out her iPhone and turned it on. She began to walk and then to jog. She made it ten steps before a sound distracted her.

Her phone began to ring. Ryoka stared at it. Slowly, she hit the glowing green button and raised her phone to her ear.

“…Hello?”



End of Volume 1





Author’s Note:

It has been seven years, I think. Seven years since I began writing Volume 1 of The Wandering Inn, at the beginning of all of this.

If it was six or eight, don’t correct me. Seven sounds better. I will be publishing Volume 1, rewritten, on my birthday. With it, I am finally happy enough to let this be printed, and while I have kept the bones of the old story, I have added and tweaked and rewritten some chapters because I am a far better author than I was.

All the old chapters will be kept up for people to read if they wish, but this is better. Better because I did not erase what made the old good, but added onto it, I feel.

I have many people to thank. All my readers for making The Wandering Inn more popular than I could have hoped for. Diana Gill for editing it. My assistant and agent for helping organize all this. And my beta-reading crew and the typo-killing squad, who went through hundreds of thousands of words to make this the best experience possible.

I do not share much about myself, because I am not much of a public person. I am at my best when I am writing, and while sometimes I’d love to be a public author, I think ‘pirateaba’ is my best side. Writers are not necessarily good at speaking, and fame is like a rabid squirrel. You may want to chase it, until it bites you. And then it never lets go and you’re infected.

…The point I am making is this. I have written The Wandering Inn for seven years. It is the most I have devoted to anything in my life except perhaps school—and this is one project. After seven years, I am a far better writer than when I began, and I am glad to come back and give new readers the experience the story deserves.

It is not perfect, and I am learning. But the web serial continues. We are on Volume 9 and there is a ways to go. I hope I can make it. My birthday is tomorrow. When you read this, I will be old. My time is short and I fear I may not make it to the end.

I’m turning 30 tomorrow. I was 23 when I began. That’s my pirateaba fact after seven years, and yes, this is an attack on anyone older than me. The Wandering Inn has been an amazing amount of change for me, writing it and learning. Everything that comes after and because of this story is amazing. Thanks for reading, or re-reading, and I hope you continue to enjoy the story.

–pirateaba





Interlude – The Call


[User Rose has joined the conversation.]

[15 Users Connected]



[Squirtle344] – Lol. Another one!

[BlackMage] – Rose, welcome. Glad you made it.

[batman] – SUP.

[Rose] – Okaaaaaay. Magical floating screen. o.o

[strider_479] – That was the last one in several minutes. Looks like most of us are here so do we want to get things started?

[plusOne] – what is this?? how is this happening?

[Level 12 Warrior] – ikr? Floating screen popped up after I answered the phone. i nearly died!

[Rose] – Is this some kind of Skype call?

[strider_479] – More like a magical chatroom. I’m not sure how this is possible, though.

[BlackMage] – Right, let me start things off. I’m uh, the one who set all this up. We’re all connected by magic.

[Squirtle344] – bull

[50fiftyCents] – no its true i can detect magic with my skill [twinTrouble_53] – Still impossible. How is this happening?

[batman] – iPhones r magic. duh. apple has wizards.

[America Group] – Hold on, let’s let BlackMage speak.

[BlackMage] – I managed to link up our phones, but it takes a LOT of magical power to do this. And I thought having a bunch of voices would be too confusing so we’re in chat.

[twinTrouble_53] – How much power?

[batman] – over 9000 lol.

[BlackMage] – I hope we can use this as a way to communicate and make sense of things here.

[Loran Grimnar] – Not many people here. Is it because of distance?

[BlackMage] – Shouldn’t be a problem.

[strider_479] – Maybe this only works with iPhones?

[ayan] – everyone is dead. we are the only survivors!

[50fiftyCents] – fuck android users man. Their loss.

[asdf] – send help pls!

[America Group] – Let’s all calm down and try to make sense of things. If we all type no one will be able to understand anything.

[ayan] – who make u the leader?

[BlackMage] – I think he’s right. We should start with basics.

[Rose] – What basics? I’m sitting in a forest in THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE. I haven’t seen anyone except monsters for DAYS!

[asdf] – help

[strider_479] – What, really? I’m in a city right now with some other people who got teleported with me.

[BlackMage] – Really? Where?

[Kent Scott] – Does this city have a name?

[America Group] – HOLD ON. Let’s start with basic information. Where are all of you?

[strider_479] – I’m in the Adventurer’s Guild in my city. Pentagost.

[Rose] – I’m in a forest, like I said. I have no idea where I am.

[batman] – this is a trap lol.

[twinTrouble_53] – It’s not a trap. What makes you think that?

[plusOne] – who CARES? if you can send us a message, can you send us home?

[Squirtle344] – omg pls!

[Level 12 Warrior] – yes.

[asdf] – yes do it please!

[BlackMage] – I can’t do that. This is all I can do. I don’t even know what sent us here.

[50fiftyCents] – damn

[Squirtle344] – i want to go home.

[America Group] – Not much we can do about that now. Priorities should be linking up & sharing information to survive.

[strider_479] – In that case, start with levels and classes.

[ayan] – why?

[strider_479] – Good information to know. I’m a Level 16 [Ranger], by the way.

[Rose] – Classes? What?

[BlackMage] – Not bad. I’m a Level 11 [Engineer] at the moment, and Level 8 [Mage]. That’s how I set up this call.

[Loran Grimnar] – What?? You can become a ENGINEER?

[BlackMage] – Seems like it. I took apart my iPhone and some of my electronics and got the class.

[twinTrouble_53] – Whoa, electronics? You have more stuff?

[batman] – when r you gonna get [Technomage] class?

[Level 12 Warrior] – There’s a [Technomage] class???? How do u get it?

[plusOne] – hes just trollin. ignore him.

[50fiftyCents] – Level 10 [Mage] here. Magic is AWESOME!

[ayan] – ive just been running away from everything ur killing monsters??? level 4 traveler level 1 trader [America Group] – I am a Level 26 [Knight]. Others with me are [Assassin], [Pyromancer], [Beast Tamer], [Tactician], [Fist Fighter], etc…and one [Clown].

[Squirtle344] – wut.

[strider_479] – Get out.

[twinTrouble_53] – Do you have a list of all the classes?

[Kent Scott] – How many people are with you? What are their names?

[plusOne] – no wey. u can’t be 26

[America Group] – I am.

[batman] – i am [Dark Avenger]. level 999999.

[Level 12 Warrior] – Impossible. How did u level so fast? I’ve been killing monsters every day as an adventurer, and I’m only a Level 12 [Warrior].

[America Group] – It seems like our summoning spell blessed us in some way. We all gained the [Hero] class when we were summoned, but none of us have managed to progress it past Level 1 that I know of. It seems to make us all level up faster.

[batman] – gtfo. pics or it didn’t happen.

[BlackMage] – Some people on my end are telling me that no one’s gotten the [Hero] class in centuries. What kingdom is this?

[Loran Grimnar] – Wait a second. Slow down. SUMMONED????

[America Group] – Weren’t all of you summoned here?

[strider_479] – No.

[Squirtle344] – no.

[batman] – i’m the chosen one.

[Loran Grimnar] – We arrived in a storm. Half of us FELL down a cliff on our first night!

[Rose] – I woke up here! No idea what happened!

[asdf] – help please!

[strider_479] – Backtrack to the Level 26 part. I’ve been here for two weeks. How the fuck did you get that high so fast?

[Squirtle344] – language.

[batman] – shut up fag.

[plusOne] – omg. can we block u?

[Loran Grimnar] – Two weeks? I’ve been here way longer than that!

[ayan] – wait. ive been here for three months.

[50fiftyCents] – WHAT

[BlackMage] – This is important! What’s the last big thing you all remember from our world?

[ayan] – um. the election?

[BlackMage] – Did it already take place?

[ayan] – no, i meant we were still in the primaries. TRUMP just got nominated for republicans.

[Loran Grimnar] – Hold it. The election’s over. Way over.

[Squirtle344] – No way.

[ayan] – liar

[Loran Grimnar] – I’m serious. It was just after Christmas when I got abducted.

[strider_479] – There’s a huge time difference here, it seems.

[America Group] – Wait, if the election’s over, who won?

[BlackMage] – Hillary, duh.

[Rose] – No. It was Trump!

[plusOne] – omfg no way yESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS

[Level 12 Warrior] – America is doomed.

[ayan] – glad im here.

[50fiftyCents] – shut up! Trump is 100000X better than lyin hillary.

[ayan] – aaaand now the idiots appear. good luck i hope a monster eats you.

[plusOne] – fuck u liberals

[Loran Grimnar] – WHO CARES? THIS ISNT AMERICA!!

[strider_479] – I’m not even American.

[Squirtle344] – wut

[ayan] – seriously?

[strider_479] – Yeah. I’m from Australia. What about everyone else.

[plusOne] – u don’t sound australian.

[strider_479] – This Australian enough for you, ‘mate’?

[Rose] – Who types in accents?

[batman] – racist

[plusOne] – shut up.

[twinTrouble_53] – England here.

[ayan] – WUTTTT

[Level 12 Warrior] – i thought everyone was American! hey there!

[America Group] – I’m with a group of Americans over here. We’re from all over the continent, though.

[plusOne] – you and your ‘summoning spell’ right

[America Group] – Not a lie.

[Loran Grimnar] – Who’s from America? Me.

[50fiftyCents] – America! FUCK YEAH!

[Rose] – I’m from California.

[BlackMage] – Okay, so we’re from everywhere. I’m from America too, by the way. But back to when we arrived. How long have all of you been here?

[Loran Grimnar] – Maybe four weeks? It gets hard to tell.

[ayan] – seventy eight days.

[batman] – forever

[plusOne] – a month? not sure.

[Rose] – A week.

[strider_479] – Wow. Really?

[Rose] – Yeah, I just got here and I’m flipping out.

[BlackMage] – Wait, what’s the last thing you remember from home?

[Rose] – Um. Last thing? It’s really hard to remember. Trump banned all Muslims, but it got blocked by the judicial courts. That’s the biggest thing.

[ayan] – omg. Hitler’s back with a wig!

[50fiftyCents] – don’t be stupid. the muslim ban was a long time coming. Obama should have done it if he weren’t a traitor.

[America Group] – I’m Muslim. Several people in my group are, too.

[batman] – BURNED

[50fiftyCents] – i don’t mean all muslims are bad. but a lot of you are terrorists. we’ve got to protect Americans first.

[ayan] – so racist.

[50fiftyCents] – Fuck you!

[strider_479] – Let’s all STOP with the politics. We have a lot more to cover.

[Kent Scott] – Indeed. We should all meet up.

[plusOne] – where?

[Level 12 Warrior] – more like how

[Kent Scott] – I am in a well-protected city. If we meet where I am we will be safe.

[plusOne] – yes pls!

[Rose] – I don’t know where I am.

[Kent Scott] – Tell me what cities you all are in, or what continent.

[America Group] – Our group is in Karas, a city in the Blighted Continent.

[BlackMage] – I’ve heard of that place. It’s constantly at war, right?

[Kent Scott] – Where are the rest of you?

[plusOne] – im in a city. its called Shieldmeet. i dont know anything else [batman] – this is a total trap yo

[asdf] – help us i dont know where we are!!

[Loran Grimnar] – This isn’t a trap. We’re trying to link up.

[batman] – sez you. could be a trap.

[plusOne] – wtf is wrong with you? We’re all in this together.

[batman] – u could all be fake.

[Loran Grimnar] – Fake? What the hell are you on?

[BlackMage] – There are multiple continents on this planet, and this place is HUGE. I’m not sure we can meet so easily even if we know where everyone is.

[America Group] – Agreed. There’s a lot of extremely dangerous monsters where we are. Not a safe place.

[Kent Scott] – Tell me where the rest of you are.

[asdf] – help us please!!!!!!

[Loran Grimnar] – This is such a clusterfuck.

[America Group] – Let’s try to organize. We should start with a basic description from everyone. Write down your name, location, classes, and so on.

[Kent Scott] – That is a good idea.

[asdf] – HELP

[ayan] – so annoying!

[Loran Grimnar] – Would you STOP THAT? We’re trying to communicate here.

[asdf] – HELPHELP

[asdf] – HELP

[asdf] – HELP

[batman] – asdghhASDaj

[Loran Grimnar] – STOP.

[asdf] – help us pls!!! we need help!

[Loran Grimnar] – Why do you need help? WE ALL NEED HELP.

[asdf] – save us we r dying

[Loran Grimnar] – what really?

[asdf] – monsters r everywhere we need help!!

[America Group] – You’re under attack right now?

[plusOne] – omg.

[asdf] – not now but they will come BACK!

[asdf] – they’re coming out of ground. They liv down there.

[America Group] – Where? Do you know where you are? What country?

[Level 12 Warrior] – what continent more like. how many does this place have?

[asdf] – i dont know but we need HELP!

[strider_479] – We can’t help you unless we know where you are.

[ayan] – its too far how would you get there?

[asdf] – pls…

[America Group] – I’m sorry. Is there anywhere you can hide out?

[asdf] – please come

[strider_479] – Can you give us a description of the monsters? I’m with adventurers. They can give you tips on how to fight.

[asdf] – howW?????? WE HAVE NO WEAPONS

[strider_479] – Damn it.

[Kent Scott] – Describe where you are.

[batman] – To exit the simulation, please type ‘EXIT’ without the quotation marks in the chat box and hit send. A virtual aide will be sent to you momentarily to begin the extraction process.

[50fiftyCents] – EXIT

[plusOne] – exit

[ayan] – EXIT

[strider_479] – You trolling bastard.

[plusOne] – EXIT

[Level 12 Warrior] – EXIT

[asdf] – EXIT please now pls

[batman] – …lol

[plusOne] – FUCK YOU.

[Loran Grimnar] – Jesus. Can we kick batman off the chat? Or at least mute him or something?

[BlackMage] – Sorry. The system isn’t built that way.

[Prophet] – Do not take the Lord’s Name in vain.

[batman] – wut? lol

[strider_479] – Seriously batman, if you can’t contribute anything, please keep silent.

[Loran Grimnar] – Agreed.

[Squirtle344] – totally. shut the fuck up.

[batman] – ur all haters. u don’t know anything.

[asdf] – HELP US PLEASE YOU MUST HELP!

[Prophet] – Pray for Salvation and His Hand shall shelter you.

[Loran Grimnar] – …And now we’ve got crazies running around. Wonderful.

[Level 12 Warrior] – dude, shut up. we don’t need two worlds with your bullshit.

[Prophet] – All those who pray shall be Saved by the Lord our God.

[Kent Scott] – We must focus. Tell us your names. First name and last name.

[Squirtle344] – y?

[strider_479] – Zara Walker.

[plusOne] – caren glover

[50fiftyCents] – Ridley Wallis

[ayan] – Thompson Green

[batman] – Bruce Wayne

[BlackMage] – This isn’t what we should be focusing on.

[America Group] – Agreed. We should be sharing information. Survival tips. Anything you know?

[ayan] – how do u do magic?

[batman] – with a wand. duh

[plusOne] – shut up.

[BlackMage] – You need to be activated. Not everyone has the potential to do magic, but another magic-user needs to test you.

[strider_479] – Important tips? Seems like leveling in this world is based on adversity, not repetition?

[50fiftyCents] – what? ENGLISH.

[Loran Grimnar] – She means that you can’t grind. But is that true?

[strider_479] – Seems like it. The bigger the challenges, the faster I’ve leveled.

[America Group] – I can confirm that.

[plusOne] – weird. Can u game the system?

[Loran Grimnar] – If we could, that would be amazing.



[User s has joined the conversation.]

[16 Users Connected]



[plusOne] – oh hey another one!

[America Group] – Welcome s.

[Level 12 Warrior] – i know how to game the system. multiple classes. the more you have, the more skills you get!

[Loran Grimnar] – Acquiring new classes is hard. I don’t have more than 3.

[strider_479] – This is so unfocused. Can we split up the chat somehow?

[BlackMage] – I’m sorry, this is the best I can do.

[Kent Scott] – s, what is your first and last name? Where are you from?

[s] – ?

[ayan] – wut

[batman] – looool

[s] – I can read little. Can u translat my language?? क्या आप हिन्दी बोलते हैं?

[ayan] – omg wtf is that?

[Loran Grimnar] – That’s some kind of middle eastern language, I think. Can anyone read it?

[batman] – i can.

[plusOne] – bullshit

[BlackMage] – Hang on, I think I can use Google Translate.

[ayan] – offline???

[Loran Grimnar] – You have the app? SWEET!

[batman] – खतरे यहाँ है बात नहीं करते नकली व्यक्ति यहाँ है asshole [Loran Grimnar] – What did batman just say?



[User s has disconnected.]



[15 Users Connected]

[plusOne] – OMG YOU BASTARD.

[ayan] – wft did you type?

[batman] – haha rekt!

[BlackMage] – I just translated that. batman, I’m warning you. If you keep acting like this, in the future you will NOT be invited to other calls.

[batman] – पसंदीदा फिल्म पूछें go fuck yourself

[plusOne] – omg stfu!

[ayan] – please tell me we can kick batman

[Level 12 Warrior] – it all makes sense. hes some dude who doesn’t know English trolling around.

[Loran Grimnar] – Damnit. Can we just FOCUS for one second?

[Kent Scott] – Agreed.

[BlackMage] – Actually, I’ve got a better idea. Everyone name one of your favorite movies. It’s very important. Mine was the fourth Harry Potter movie.

[ayan] – wut?

[50fiftyCents] – are you insane?

[Rose] – ???

[America Group] – Just do it. Lord of the Rings.

[strider_479] – Seriously. Stop asking questions. I watched Red Dog as a kid.

[ayan] – um okay, Spiderman.

[twinTrouble_53] – The Princess Bride.

[asdf] – y? Star Wars Episode III.

[Loran Grimnar] – Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan.

[Rose] – Interstallar? Not my absolute favorite but..

[50fiftyCents] – alien. best movie ever.

[plusOne] – independance day or godzilla

[Squirtle344] – Naruto: Road to Ninja!

[Level 12 Warrior] – Back to the Future

[batman] – BATMAN! THE DARK KNIGHT BITCHES!

[plusOne] – everything u say makes me feel like i have cancer. The Matrix.

[Kent Scott] – Spiderman was my favorite movie as well.

[BlackMage] – Prophet?

[Prophet] – The only Truth is the will of God, not baser delights.

[America Group] – We need to know.

[strider_479] – Tell us.

[Prophet] – Before I heard the Voice and was Reborn I watched movies such as The Ten Commandments. Is that what you wish to know?

[BlackMage] – Yes, thanks.

[America Group] – I see.

[strider_479] – Got it.

[ayan] – wtf are you talking about?

[BlackMage] – Hey Kent Scott, quick question. What’s Spiderman’s real name?

[plusOne] – what??

[ayan] – are you srs right now?

[strider_479] – No one else answer.

[Kent Scott] – Very clever.

[Loran Grimnar] – What’s going on?

[BlackMage] – Whoever this ‘Kent Scott’ is, they’re not from our world. How did you get that iPhone?

[ayan] – omg

[batman] – haxx!

[strider_479] – Who are you?

[Kent Scott] – I found this device by accident.

[strider_479] – Bullshit. How did you figure out the password?

[Level 12 Warrior] – fuck that’s right

[Kent Scott] – Hahaha. Well done.

[America Group] – Did you kill the real Kent Scott?

[BlackMage] – GUYS. The mage I’m with is telling me that your FIRST and LAST names could have been used to scry on you! He knows where you are and what you look like!

[ayan] – omg omg omg

[50fiftyCents] – FUCK.

[Loran Grimnar] – Did you do all this? WHO ARE YOU?

[Kent Scott] – Only one group could work a spell to reach across the world. You, BlackMage, are in Wistram Academy.

[BlackMage] – Everyone, disconnect now. This isn’t safe.

[plusOne] – but we need help!

[asdf] – Help us PLEASE! WE WILL DIE!!!!!!!!!!

[America Group] – There’s nothing we can do right now. DO NOT ANSWER ANY CALLS. Everyone who said their names, be CAREFUL.

[BlackMage] – Disconnect NOW. Someone is trying to take over the spell here!



[User BlackMage has disconnected.]

[14 Users Connected]



[User batman has disconnected.]

[13 Users Connected]



[User Level 12 Warrior has disconnected.]

[12 Users Connected]



[User 50fiftyCents has disconnected.]

[11 Users Connected]



[Kent Scott] – I mean you no harm. I will protect you.

[asdf] – please help

[plusOne] – no he will kill you. don’t say anything [strider_479] – DISCONNECT



[User Prophet has disconnected.]

[10 Users Connected]



[User Loran Grimnar has disconnected.]

[9 Users Connected]



[User ayan has disconnected.]

[8 Users Connected]



[User asdf has disconnected.]

[7 Users Connected]



[User rose has disconnected.]

[6 Users Connected]



[User America Group has disconnected.]

[5 Users Connected]



[User plusOne has disconnected.]

[4 Users Connected]



[User Squirtle344 has disconnected.]

[3 Users Connected]



[User strider_479 has disconnected.]

[2 Users Connected]



[Kent Scott] – Well, well. How inconvenient. Can I persuade you to stay, twinTrouble_53? I mean you no harm.

[twinTrouble_53] – Liar. And it is not twinTrouble you speak to anymore.

[Kent Scott] – Ah. Someone else?

[twinTrouble_53] – I am Flos.

[Kent Scott] – My. I would bow before you had I legs.

[twinTrouble_53] – Name yourself, thief.

[Kent Scott] – I am no one. Certainly not anyone to trouble the sleeping king.

[twinTrouble_53] – I sleep no longer. Thus I issue you a warning, thief. To you and to Wistram and all the mages who cower behind spell and door. Know that I, Flos, have returned. Those who would oppose me, tremble for all that I see will be mine. I will come for you and break down your craven towers and unmask those who would hide.

[twinTrouble_53] – I am Flos.

[twinTrouble_53] – I have returned.

[Kent Scott] – Then let us see what the King of Destruction brings. Until then.



[User Kent Scott has disconnected.]

[1 Users Connected]



[User twinTrouble_53 has disconnected.]

[0 Users Connected]



[User 伶央 has joined the conversation.]

[1 Users Connected]



[伶央] – こんにちは.

[伶央] – だれかいますか?



[User 伶央 has disconnected.]

[0 Users Connected]





2.00


The inn was dark when the traveler first arrived. No – to begin with, she wasn’t really a traveler. She was a Runner, which was completely different.

And she wasn’t lost. Neither had she decided to visit the inn out of a need for sleep or food or even a burning desire to use the outhouse.

She just needed a place to think.

Ryoka cautiously pushed open the wooden door and paused a moment to let her eyes adjust. The inn was dark. The common room was almost as dark as the shadowed grasslands outside, illuminated only by the lone candle on one of the tables.

It flickered, and made the shadows dance as the door’s opening disturbed the solitary flame. Ryoka looked around. There was definitely an ambiance to the room which she was determined to ignore. Just because something looked creepy did not mean it was.

“Hello?”

Ryoka called cautiously as she stepped into the inn. She was already regretting coming back. She hadn’t intended to stay at this place – The Wandering Inn. In fact, she’d fully committed herself to running through the night rather than have to deal with annoying innkeepers who made comments about her bare feet.

Not fifteen minutes ago Ryoka had been despairing, exhausted, and full of anger and hatred towards nothing and everything. She wouldn’t have set foot in this inn even if it were the Taj Mahal.

Well, maybe if it were the Taj Mahal. But this run-down inn was no superstar hotel, and Ryoka had been ready to leave it behind and run on.

That was fifteen minutes ago.

A lot can happen in fifteen minutes. Ryoka glanced down at the iPhone in her hands and turned the screen off before she tucked it in her pocket. It wouldn’t do to scare the innkeeper with her phone.

If there was an innkeeper. The candle indicated life, but Ryoka didn’t see or hear anyone stirring even after she’d called.

Well. To enter or leave? Ryoka hated this kind of dilemma. She hated dealing with people, come to that. But she really, really needed a place to sit and process all of what had happened. And she was tired. They were all dead. She could run, but she couldn’t outrun what had happened.

So she stepped into the inn, calling out again.

“Is anyone there?”

It was the kind of generic question that deserved instant death if she were exploring an abandoned house or looking for monsters. Since she was looking for an innkeeper, it was probably fine.

There was still no answer. Ryoka frowned. Was the innkeeper out? It could be possible, but she’d expect a barmaid or someone to stay in the inn. At the very least, they’d lock the doors.

A dark suspicion crossed Ryoka’s mind and she stopped, looking around the empty room. An empty inn might mean something had emptied it, and recently. Had a monster crept in here? This place was near Liscor, and Liscor had recently been attacked. If a straggler had made its way in here…

She had no weapons. Well, nothing that was better than her hands and feet. But she did have magic. One spell, to be exact.

“[Light].”

Ryoka felt something go out of her as a shimmering orb of white light floated up from one of her hands. It cast the room into sudden, sharp relief as the shadows fled.

She looked around, searching for movement or shapes behind tables or chairs. There was nothing.

The room was empty. Ryoka’s eyes travelled to the staircase, and then the door behind the bar. She clenched one hand.

She’d never killed anything. Never—except maybe a Goblin. But something had attacked Liscor in the four days she’d been away. Something.

The undead. Ryoka imagined shambling zombies groaning and munching on brains, but that didn’t match with the devastation she’d seen walking into the city of Drakes and Gnolls. Entire buildings had been torn apart and the injuries she’d seen on those who hadn’t received healing were—

A sound made Ryoka freeze in place. Something.

A low—grunting sound. A rasping rumble. Ryoka’s heart beat faster. It was coming from the kitchen.

She crouched low and moved silently towards the open doorway. She stopped, her ear to one wall, heart pounding. Something was in there. Something big, by the sound of it. But it was also asleep.

Ryoka covered the ball of light with one hand, thinking. Step around the corner, take a look at what it was, and step away. If it came after her, she could be out the door in seconds.

Her hand tightened into a fist. Immediately Ryoka relaxed, keeping her hands loose and ready to punch. She counted to three in her head. Then she swiftly stepped into the kitchen, hands raised.

The room was dark. A thousand things leapt out at Ryoka at once. Cupboards, knives, silver wear, pottery stacked up, a bucket of water, an empty fireplace, and—

A girl sleeping on the ground.

Ryoka stopped. A girl lay sprawled on the kitchen floor, tangled in a pile of sheets and a bedroll. She was snoring quite loudly, oblivious to Ryoka’s presence. She opened her mouth and grunted or perhaps burped. It didn’t sound appropriate to her size.

Ryoka lowered her fists. She stared at the sleeping girl for a few seconds. She slapped herself hard on the forehead.

The loud crack of flesh on flesh made the girl on the ground sit bolt upright. Ryoka leapt back as the other girl looked around wildly.

“I’m up! Knight to F3!”

She tried to stand up, tangled in her sheets and tumbled over. She rolled upright. That’s when she saw Ryoka.

“Oh!”

For a moment the other girl gaped, and then she struggled to get up. Ryoka debated helping for an instant, and then let the other girl get up on her own.

When she was upright, Ryoka found herself looking at a girl close to her own age. She was shorter—shorter than Ryoka who was tall—and she had fair skin, hazel eyes and only the slightest orange tint to her light brown hair.

She blinked at Ryoka. Ryoka stared back. The girl opened her mouth, looked around, and then smiled weakly.

“Um. Hi?”



—-



She’d just put her head down for a minute. And then—well, she’d woken up and decided that it would be a better five minutes if she were in bed, so to speak. So Erin had wandered over to her bedroll in the kitchen. It wasn’t as if anyone had visited the inn today and Klbkch and the others were busy. She’d sent Toren out to harvest blue fruits, collect water, and generally stay out of her hair, so what was the harm in taking a thirty minute nap?

But somehow, Erin’s small one hour nap had ended up with her waking in near dusk with a terribly foggy head, stiff joints and a girl standing over her.

Erin stared. She had a guest. A tall guest. A female guest.

The person who’d woken her up was tall. She had dark hair, brown eyes—she looked Asian. But she was also tall, which was unusual. And she had a floating magic orb of light on one hand but Erin could only handle so much excitement at one time.

She had a terrible, terrible urge to say ‘konnichiwa’ to the girl, but fought it off with difficulty. Her second impulse was to say ‘ni hao’ or maybe ‘anyoung haseyo’, but she was pretty sure she’d mess up the pronunciation of all three greetings.

Erin could say hello in most languages, although that was pretty much the extent of her linguistic skill. She could say ‘checkmate’ and ‘check’ in almost every language, though. It came from many games against foreign players online and in person. She also knew a lot of bad words as a result, although she had no real idea what they meant. Usually she just knew enough to duck before the table got flipped.

But there was something incredibly Asian about the tall girl’s features, and it was even more pronounced by the fact that hers was the first non-European, non-furred or non-scaled face Erin had seen in this world.

“Um, hi.”

Speaking foreign languages to people hadn’t worked out well with Ceria, so it probably wouldn’t work here. Erin waved weakly at the other girl as she stepped back.

“…Mm.”

Was that a hello or just a grunt? The other girl stared around the dark kitchen as Erin scrambled for more words beyond ‘leave me alone I’m trying to sleep’. Right. She was awake and she had…a customer.

Erin had been a waitress for all of two weeks back when she’d had a part time job for the summer. That was about all of her job experience aside from working in chess tournaments as a referee. And that wasn’t work that was…chess.

But she had a definite feeling that falling asleep on the job wasn’t acceptable behavior. Even if she did own the inn.

“Hi.”

She tried again, and the other girl stared at her. Erin put her best smile on her face and waved at her guest.

“Sorry about that. Um. I was asleep. Can I help you?”

“Is this an inn?”

“What? Oh. Yes! Yes, this is an inn!”

Erin waved around the room airily, trying to gloss over the fact that half the inn was still damaged from the battle with the undead two days ago. The other girl stared at Erin.

“And you’re…the innkeeper?”

The innkeeper smiled nervously.

“Yes? I mean, yes. Can I—do you want something to eat? A place to sleep?”

“Something to eat.”

“Sure, sure! This way.”

Erin led the other girl back into the inn’s main room. The girl took a seat while Erin stood and fidgeted. After a moment the girl looked up.

“Do you have a menu?”

“Menu?”

Erin blinked at the tall girl a few times. Then she panicked again. Menu. Right. She’d never really finished—

“Um, it’s right there.”

She pointed and winced as her guest looked at the menu with all three items.

Pasta w/sausage and onions – 3 cp. per plate.

Blue juice – 2 cp. per glass.

Acid flies – 1 s. per plate

“…Acid flies?”

“They’re um, real flies. I drained the acid from them, but uh—”

“What’s blue juice?”

“It’s very sweet! It’s like orange—I mean, it’s like an orange except more blueberry. Sweeter. It’s a nice drink!”

Erin wondered whether she should mention there was more food she’d learned to cook. She could make soup! Random soup was what she called it, because she mainly just tossed ingredients in a pot and trusted to her [Basic Cooking] skill. It usually came up edible.

“I can uh, I can make bacon and eggs. Or—or ham. We’ve got ham and salad if you want it—”

“Pasta is fine. I’ll have that and a cup of blue…juice.”

“Okay, sure!”

Erin smiled. The other girl did not return the smile.

“I’ll um, I’ll get it.”

She had plenty of blue juice but not a lot of cups. Erin had tossed most of her cups and heavy objects at the undead. She finally found a good one and washed it out before filling it with juice.

The girl was still sitting at the table. She glanced up at Erin but said not a word as Erin put cup and silverware in front of her. Erin tried another smile, but the other girl’s face could have been carved from ice. She decided to go for broke and introduced herself.

“I’m Erin, by the way. Erin Solstice.”

“Mm.”

Erin waited, but the other girl’s name did not seem to be forthcoming. She stared down at the table, not even touching her drink. The other girl stared at the wood grain, but she seemed to be a thousand miles away.

She was very quiet. Erin hoped that wasn’t because she was planning to murder her with one of the forks.



—-



The world is shit. All things and everything in it are utter crap. But of course crap’s not a good enough word, is it? Death and despair rule everything. That’s how it’s always been and that’s how it will be.

Some days are like this. I’ve felt it before. Black depression. Anger. It’s easy to say the words, but to live it?

Every time I forget. Every time. I forget how twisted this damned world is and I relax. And then it gets me. It would be easier if I didn’t hope. If I just—

“Um. Is the juice okay? I have water if you want it. Boiled.”

I look up. The girl’s hovering over me again. Erin? She’s annoying. It would be easy to just toss the juice in her face and kick her until she stops talking.

A thin red line. I think that’s the only thing that separates me from madness some days. And some day, perhaps, it will disappear and I’ll lose it. It’s already broken once. I hurt my friends. And now they’re dead.

Not my fault. Of course. They went into the ruins. It was their fault, and guilt is only part of the grieving process. I know that. I probably couldn’t have done anything. They were dead days before I was even close to Liscor. It’s just that it hurts. More than anything I’ve felt in years.

I—

Wish I’d been with them.

“Um? Hello?”

I look up. Oh. Right. She asked me a question about my drink.

“It’s fine. Thank you.”

It’s not the innkeeper I’m mad at. I just can’t deal with her or anyone at the moment. How could I? The Horns of Hammerad. Gerial. Ceria. Calruz. Sostrom.

They’re all dead. I never even got to say goodbye.

Mercifully, the innkeeper retreats. She’s odd. A young girl out far from the city like this? Well, not too far but still. How does she survive? Do I even care?

I’m trying to think of something, anything, but the faces of the dead keep haunting me. I try not to let them, but I can’t help but wonder and regret. If I’d been with them, would I have spotted a trap? Would I have been able to run for help? If I’d been there, if I hadn’t run off. If I hadn’t been such a stupid idiot and picked a fight…

Without thinking I take a gulp from the cup in front of me and nearly choke. Sweet! It’s sweet and pulpy, and tastes—

It actually tastes good. Not like the alcoholic crap I have to drink in each tavern. It tastes like orange juice mixed with a blueberry shake mixed with high fructose corn syrup. All the good things that I love to hate.

It tastes a bit like home.

Just a bit. But I take another gulp and the sweetness is good. It’s not like the ice cream I had with Magnolia. It’s just plain old juice, and it’s good to have.

“Another cup?”

I nearly jump out of my skin. That girl is pretty damn silent. But—what the hell?

“Sure. How much for a pitcher?”

She blinks at me. Does she not even price her drinks? Well damn.

I open my runner’s pack and fish around. I’ve still got several gold coins and when I hold one up her eyes go wide.

“Um—”

“Just take whatever I eat out of that. I’ll have a pitcher of blue juice.”

“Blue juice? Pitcher? Coming right up.”

Hah. That did it. Money walks and talks and solves every problem. Even annoying innkeepers. Well, she might try to gouge me but what the hell. I don’t need money. What good would it do me?

The blue juice arrives in a satisfyingly full ceramic pitcher. Enough to drown me or have me peeing all night, but you know what? I don’t care. I fill up my cup and drink while the innkeeper girl goes off to do something which involves a lot of banging about and quiet swearing in the kitchen.

I rub at my face. A sweet drink. It shouldn’t help, but it does. Immensely. I’ve been living off of water and dry rations for the last…it must be eight days. Not exactly fun, but I’ve had worse.

But this makes things a little better. A little. And it restarts my brain a bit, takes me off the spiral of guilt. The Horns of Hammerad can wait. It hurts, but they’re gone. However terrible it might be, there’s something that takes priority even over that.

The call. What in the name of non-existent deities far and wide was that? I—

Everything has changed. I feel it. This world is different now, and the stakes have suddenly gotten a lot higher than my single life. Someone has walked into the small sandcastle of my understanding of the world and given it a damn good kick.

There are more people than just me in this world. From my world, I mean. There are more interdimensional travelers, more people from Earth*.



*Assuming people don’t call this place Earth, obviously. Stop belaboring the point. I know what I mean.

That chat. A—a messenger chat with magic? How is that possible?

Magic. Duh. Focus! Think. Try to think of what happened.

Well, it’s a good thing I used to read Youtube comments or I wouldn’t have been able to transform myself into an egotistical thirteen year-old with delusions of grammar. [batman] was a good foil, but I probably gave myself away there at the end. No matter; it had to be done.

First things first. In that conversation, a few important elements stood out. And above all the rest?

Kent Scott. Whoever that person was, he wasn’t from our world. He was…fishing for information. First and last names. No one else seemed to get that, but thanks to Teriarch I know that he was trying to use a [Scrying] spell.

And he got three names. Or was it two? In any case, that’s really bad. Can he teleport right over there? Is that even a spell? But if he knows the names, there’s nowhere in the world those people can hide, right?

Who is he? He was using Kent Scott as his name, which means he either tortured or killed the real Kent Scott. But how much does he know in that case? Enough to be hunting the rest of us down? Could he have figured out our locations from the magical chat? And if so—

“Oh hey, just wanted to let you know the pasta will be done in around ten minutes.”

The innkeeper pops her head out of the kitchen. Damn it. Who cares? But my stomach rumbles. Traitorous body. I nod at her. She’s exactly the kind of person I don’t really like hanging around. Just a bit too friendly and bubbly and clearly not that focused.

Okay, okay. What was I thinking about? Kent Scott. One part of the puzzle. What else? Oh yeah. Summoned heroes? People with a [Hero] class which hasn’t been heard of in centuries? That’s odd. Could we all have been summoned as a—a byproduct of that spell? Accidental side effects?

If so, it would explain why I appeared out of nowhere like that. But that guy was a Level 26 [Knight]. Is that fast leveling? It seems so, considering Calruz was only around Level 22. So one guy who’s been here for a month or two already leveled past a Minotaur who’s been fighting all his life?

Damn. Is that cheating or what? But how—

“Do you want meat and onions on your pasta? Or something else? I’ll change the recipe if you want.”

Who cares what—just answer her.

“That’s fine. Thank you.”

I am trying to think. Ignore the stupid innkeeper. Think. There’s also the fact that most of the people in the chat were American, but people from all over the world were taken. One Australian, one person from England.

But almost all spoke English. Does that mean mostly English-speaking nations were affected? Or—or does it mean primarily Americans were affected? If this was a spell, did it only hit a certain radius? If I could call the chat back on my iPhone I’d know more, but going only off of memory—

“Oops. Forgot to put the spoon out.”

Spoon? SPOON? Who the fuck eats pasta with a spoon? Italian cuisine survived for hundreds of years without a damn spoon.

…Calm down. She’s just trying to be helpful. I’m probably just making her nervous. I should smile.

My lips twitch. No go. Okay, okay. Just—what does it all mean? Here I am, with the first sign of how I got here but already there’s a serious threat. I have to anticipate what’s coming next. Do I warn someone? Who? Magnolia might be just as bad. But Wistram—that’s where [BlackMage] is. I think that’s the isle of mages. Could they help? Will he call again, or would he consider that to be too risky?

And—oh my god she’s coming back.



—-



The blank look Erin got when entered the common room was somehow worse than the stare of the Antinium. They at least had the excuse of being bugs. Her guest was just…creepy. And silent.

When she told the girl she was making a fire, she just got what sounded like a sigh. The tall girl went back to staring at the table and drinking blue juice and Erin put a log in the fireplace and tried to make it light.

Erin got the fire going after two attempts, all the while trying to ignore the eyes on the back of her head. It was an uncomfortable, prickly sensation, being watched.

The other girl looked down when Erin turned around. But she had been watching, Erin was sure. She was just so silent. And unfriendly. Would it kill her to talk a bit?

Well, who said a guest had to be nice? If she didn’t want to talk, Erin could just serve her food and wait for her to leave.

But there was something that drew her to the other girl. She was a guest. The first human guest—well, the first human guest she’d had that wasn’t a group of adventurers or Pisces. And Erin was a bit lonely. She hadn’t talked to a human, another human, for a long while.

So she stood up, walked over, and took a seat. The other girl glanced up. It was a flat look, but Erin ignored it.

“So. How’re you?”

Glance up, glance down. After a moment, the girl looked up again.

“I’m fine.”

“You know, we never got to really chat. My name is Erin. What’s yours?”

This time the other girl had to answer or—or Erin would leave her alone, she guessed. But although her guest made a face, she eventually answered.

“…Ryoka. I’m a Runner.”

Erin seized on that sentence gratefully.

“Oh! A Runner! I get most of my food and stuff delivered by a Runner. He comes every day from the city. That’s like your job, right?”

Ryoka’s left eye twitched.

“No. That’s a Street Runner.”

“Oh?”

“I’m a City Runner.”

“Ah.”

Erin didn’t know what to say to that. She was vaguely aware there was a difference from what Krshia had told her but no more than that. And the conversation’s flow was ebbing.

“That’s cool. So I guess you travel around a lot?”

“Some.”

Erin grinned weakly. Perhaps it was time to cut her losses and get the pasta. But she had to make one last attempt.

“You know, when I saw the glowing light orb I thought you were an adventurer of some kind.”

“I’m not. I just know magic.”

“Oh, okay. I, uh, I knew some adventurers, too.”

“Did you?”

The other girl’s tone was subzero. And not just frosty, more like Antarctic.

“Yeah, but they died. A few days ago, actually.”

Erin swallowed the lump in her throat. She didn’t see how the other girl looked up at that.

“Who did you know?”

“Oh, just a group of them. They were nice people, but they got killed when—”

“Who?”

Erin looked up. Ryoka’s eyes were fixed on her, intent. For the first time, Erin thought the other girl was looking at her, really looking at her.

“Who?”

“The Horns of Hammerad.”



—-



I don’t believe in destiny. Or if I did, I’d spend all of my time rebelling against it. And I don’t believe in talking to people either, as a rule.

But this—

“So I called him bull guy after that. Bull guy, Mr. Cow, Captain Udders…although I don’t think he really got that last one.”

“You didn’t do that.”

The girl sitting across from me, Erin Solstice, smiles and laughs.

“Okay, I didn’t call him all those names. Just bull guy. But it made him really mad. You could practically see the steam coming out of his ears!”

I shouldn’t, but I laugh. Calruz is dead, and it’s wrong to make fun of him. But this—

This is about what he was. What he did. And Erin telling me the stories is somehow special. Precious.

A lot can happen in fifteen minutes. You can find you have more in common with someone than you think, for instance. Fifteen minutes. Enough time to eat three plates of pasta, drink blue juice, chat…

And learn that the Horns of Hammerad stayed in this inn the night before they died. Enough time to hear their last moments from the innkeeper who’d served them meals.

I’m glad I came here. I’m glad I changed my mind and decided to stay. Because against my expectations, I’m feeling better. A belly full of hot food does that, and the conversation—

Well, it’s actually fun.

“You really called him that? Bull guy?”

“Yes! What, don’t you believe me? Ceria started calling him that too until he threw his drink at her.”

I laugh again. I can’t help it. I’ve been listening to tales of the Horns of Hammerad, but somehow Erin also managed to get the story of how I met them out of me. It’s so odd. But I want to talk about them.

“So you met them while you were delivering healing potions, right? That sounds pretty dangerous.”

It was, incredibly. Dodging spells from a Lich is probably one of the dumbest things I’ve ever done, and there’s a long list. I shrug.

“It was risky, but it’s part of the job.”

“None of the Runners around here do stuff like that. They just deliver stuff in the city and to my inn. But I guess that’s a City Runner for you, huh?”

“Yeah.”

I want to keep talking about the Horns of Hammerad. But Erin’s leaning over the table, eyes alight with curiosity.

“What’s it like, being a Runner? Do you get sore feet from running around all the time? And how much does it pay? Do you see a lot of interesting stuff?”

Well, here’s the part I don’t like about talking to people. I open my mouth to give her a bland response. What should I say? Running is hard, but fun? It can be rewarding, but you just have to put the hours in? Some bland, useless reply like that so I can change the subject back to the others.

But I stop. I hesitate. Do I have to say that? It’s a stupid line that won’t mean anything. I hate that kind of conversation. So why should I say it?

Running. Is it fun? Sometimes. Running is fun, but being a Runner isn’t. The petty rivalries, my shattered leg, and the way Runners seem to be more cowardly than adventurers—it’s hard to just gloss over that.

So why not tell her? What was it Louis C.K. said in one of his monologues? Screw the ordinary conversation, the meaningless chatter. Let’s just have a real talk.

What’s the worst that can happen? I lose my friends? I don’t have any. It’s awkward? We’ve already had enough awkwardness to fill two swimming pools.

It’s not me. I don’t chat with people. I don’t talk. But today—

Today is different.

So I begin to speak. Erin blinks as I begin talking about running, frankly, and without sparing the details.

“You had your leg shattered? By a moving—”

She glances down at my leg. You can’t even see the scars. That’s magic for you.

“And you went to the High Passes? Where’s that?”

“It’s the other gateway to the southern part of the continent. Haven’t you heard of it?”

“I uh, don’t know much about the local geography. Or politics. Or…anything.”

Huh. Sounds a bit like me. I keep talking. Somehow, she’s pulling the words out of me.

“You fought a Silver-ranked Adventurer? Barehanded? No way.”

When did I say that? My face is getting hot. She probably thinks I’m bragging but—Erin leans over the table, eyes sparkling.

“That’s so…cool. Tell me another story!”

I blink. She’s so interested. It’s just life to me. And depressing, at that. I remember what happened afterwards, my mistakes. How can I feel proud of that? But then, why not explain that bit?

I try, but Erin shakes her head. Her smile flickers and she looks me dead in the eye.

“That’s not bad. I mean, it’s not good, but I’ve done worse. Way worse. I…got a friend killed.”

“How?”

For once, I want to know. Erin pauses, and sighs. She grabs the cup she brought and drinks long and deep. Somehow, we’ve run out of blue juice and there’s several empty plates in front of both of us.

“It’s a long story. It starts with—well, I guess it starts with Goblins.”

“Goblins?”

“Goblins. And there’s acid flies, you know, the one of the menu? And talking bug men and—okay, do you believe in Dragons? Krshia—she’s a Gnoll—she says they don’t exist, but I saw one, I swear.”

Erin begins to talk. It’s a confusing story, but I listen, asking the right questions. Not just the right questions. The questions I want to know, the little details. It’s not a boring conversation. It’s not trite dialogue. It’s real. It’s engaging.

She knew The Horns of Hammerad before they died. She was there. And she’s not just a boring person. She’s someone.

It’s—odd. Her story is bothering me. Erin Solstice. Is she—it’s an odd story. But I’m too tired to think straight. I’ve been running all day and I’m tired. But her story calls to me. There’s something about Erin. I’ll think about it later.

“Have you ever seen a Gnoll? They’re like giant hyenas that get really angry. And they sniff you. A lot. Have you ever heard one of them sneeze? So weird.”

I listen. And I’m smiling. It hurts because I’m out of practice.

But I’m smiling.

I wish I could stay.



—-



“I should go.”

Ryoka said it reluctantly, but it had to be said. Erin glanced up from her table and the pile of dirty dishes and glanced outside. It was night. Midnight or later, and the sky was as close to pitch-black as it ever came.

“What? Why? I can make up a bed for you. I’ve got a bunch of—well, every room upstairs is open. And it wouldn’t cost too much. If you want—”

“No.”

The other girl said it flatly, and then tried to modulate her tone.

“No. I’m sorry. Thank you, but there’s something I have to do.”

“In the middle of the night?”

“I need to start running. I’ve got something that can’t wait and it’ll take me a day and a half to get where I’m going.”

Erin’s face fell. And she’d been getting on so well with Ryoka, too.

“If you’re sure. But it’s a long road and you look tired. What would one night matter?”

Ryoka wavered, clearly torn. But eventually she shook her head.

“I’ve got to—I need to go back. North. To Celum. There’s someone…someone I have to talk to. Something I have to do, now.”

“If you’re sure…”

“I’m sure. Sorry.”

Erin sighed. But she put a smile back on her face.

“Well, okay. But if you ever want a meal or if you’re in the area—”

Ryoka paused, and then she smiled awkwardly.

“I’ll be back. But I have to go now.”

She pulled something out of her pocket and glanced at it.

“Huh. Good enough for a few hours.”

Erin blinked as two red ear buds appeared and Ryoka popped them into her ears. She raised her voice as Ryoka turned.

“Oh, hey. Is that an iPhone?”

“Mm.”

Ryoka flicked through a few screens on her phone and then froze. Erin continued on, oblivious.

“I’m not an iPhone person. I got an Android – well, my parents got it for me. I wouldn’t have minded an iPhone—I just use it to play chess and call friends, mostly. But—”

The other girl was staring at her. Erin broke off awkwardly.

“What? Is it something on my face?”

Then she stopped. Erin’s eyes widened as her ears caught up to what her mouth was saying. She stared at Ryoka.

“Oh my god.”





2.01


“Are we going the right way? I think we’re lost.”

“Mm. Patience. This is the right direction.”

“Are you sure, Krshia? I think we’re lost. All this grass looks the same to me.”

“There is no road, Selys. We must trust we go the right way, yes? And my memory is not so poor.”

“But it’s dark.”

“If the shopkeeper lady says it’s the right place, we’re going the right way. Anyways, Klb and I have been here countless times. This is the right direction. …Right?”

“I believe so. Please take care not to fall.”

“Oh. Um, thank you.”

“I do not believe we have been formally introduced. I am Klbkch of the Free Antinium. I understand you are a friend of Erin Solstice?”

“Me? Yes! I’m Selys. I’m a receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild. I’m very pleased to meet you.”

“Allow me to introduce my colleagues. This is Relc, who I believe you two are familiar with. Watch Captain Zevara is also joining us for the night.”

“Selys. Krshia. Good evening.”

“Hm. It is good to see you are well.”

“Oh, hello Captain Zevara.”

“And these are two other Antinium from my hive. Pawn, and Ksmvr.”

“I am Ksmvr. Allow me to apologize for recent—”

“Shut up.”

“Silence.”

“…So um, Z. Why are you here? When Klb told me you were coming, I thought he was yanking my tail.”

“I wanted to see the human who killed that freak. Besides, you’ve talked about that damn inn so much I might as well see it.”

“Well, that’s…great! You’ll love it. Erin is great for a human. You’ll see.”

“You called her a useless sack of meat after—”

“Ahahahahaha! You must have heard me wrong. I never said anything like that. Erin is a great human. She called me a dragon, you know.”

“Humans can’t tell a lizard apart from a salamander. Don’t let it get to your head.”

“…Hey Klb. Are we there yet?”

“There is the inn in the distance. We are moving in the right direction.”

“Oh good! Erin’s still awake. Maybe she has guests already?”

“That mage said he would be joining us. I can’t say I’m pleased with that, but if he’s here—”

“It could be the mage. Or um…well, you know what I said about not killing any Goblins around here, Zevara? Um—”

“Please tell me the Goblins aren’t invited.”

“Well, while we’re on the subject, how do you feel about skeletons…?”



—-



“Oh my god.”

It was perhaps the sixth time Erin had said it. She was still staring at Ryoka in some state of shock. Ryoka was staring back, but her mind was racing.

Erin was from her world. Of course. All the little pieces of her story made sense, especially the way she used catchphrases and expressions from their world. How had she not noticed? She was too tired. But this was a crucial moment. Why had Ryoka suddenly met Erin right after the call? Was it coincidence or something else? Was two people appearing so near to each other geographically simple luck or something else?

“I can’t believe it.”

Ryoka lifted her iPhone. Erin’s eyes followed it as if mesmerized, then snapped back to Ryoka’s face. Her state of shock was starting to annoy the older girl.

“Are you real? I mean, you—you’re from my world, right? This isn’t a joke, is it?”

And how would it be a joke? Ryoka bit back the sarcasm and answered politely as possible.

“I’m from Ohio. My name is Ryoka Griffin. I came here in the year 2016, around October.”

“Oh my god.”

Seven times. Ryoka tried not to let her impatience show.

“I know this is incredible, but please focus. How long have you been here? Do you know how you got here? Are you—”

“Oh my god, you’re real. You’re real!”

Ryoka tried not to make a face. Erin was freaking out.

“Look, I just had a call—it was a message that—”

She got no further. Erin lunged across the table. Ryoka’s fists raised instinctively, but the other girl just threw her arms around her.

“What? Um. What are you—?”

“I’m not alone? I’m not alone! You’re here and—oh my god. You’re here!”

“I am. Why are you…? I mean, yes. You’re not alone.”

Ryoka felt the other girl squeezing her hard. She was having trouble breathing. Erin was stronger than she looked.

“Look, you don’t have to—please—are you—?”

Erin’s muffled noises turned into dampness on Ryoka’s shirt. She was…crying?

Ryoka froze up. She didn’t know what to do. She patted Erin gently on the shoulder. Once. Twice.

“Um. I—”

She had no idea what to say. Erin was weeping into her shirt, and the feeling wasn’t pleasant. Ryoka knew she should say something reassuring, but she’d never done this before.

She wasn’t alone. That was what Erin wanted to hear, right? Ryoka could tell her that. She was one of many. She was—Ryoka could tell her that she wasn’t alone. That would cheer her up. If she met with the others—

The others. Ryoka froze, forgetting everything else in a moment of cold realization. Others. There weren’t just a few. Or even sixteen. She’d completely glossed over that fact in the light of all that had happened. Sleep deprivation, the excitement of the call and meeting Erin—

She’d stopped thinking. But now her slow-moving brain had fitted the pieces together. Statistics. It all boiled down to percentages. There weren’t just sixteen people in this world. There weren’t even just a hundred. There were many more.

How many people had working iPhones at the time of the call? How many had their iPhones when they arrived? What percentage of people have iPhones to begin with?

And of that number, how many people died or weren’t able to answer the call? How many ignored it out of fear or caution?

How many people were in this world?

Hundreds? Thousands? Tens of thousands? Ryoka felt something twist in her stomach.

Humans band together. They make laws. They go to war. Perhaps other species didn’t do that. But humans did. And peace for humans is only an interlude till the next war.

In Ryoka’s mind, she imagined Celum. A city caught between the renaissance and the medieval age. They didn’t have technology, those people. They didn’t have anything valuable by her world’s standards. Just gold, jewelry.

And magic.

In Ryoka’s mind, Celum burned. Fighter jets screamed down through the sky, strafing cities and dropping bombs in the streets while tanks rolled across open plains, firing at armies that had never known gunpowder. Scientists in hazmat suits walked around next to surveyors and prospectors identifying oil wells while magic and nonhumans were dissected and studied – made fact.

A colony world. Imperialism. Mandate of Heaven. White man’s burden.

In the time it took Erin to hug and release Ryoka, a world burned down behind her eyes. It was an easy equation to solve. One person was an accident, a fluke. Two people was unusual. But more? More was an open gateway. And no door opened in only one direction.

“Sorry.”

Erin wiped her nose on her sleeve as she let Ryoka go. She was snotty in a literal sense and her eyes were puffy, but she was smiling. Ryoka felt like someone had grabbed a piece of ice and stuck it in her gut.

“This is just so—so wonderful! I can’t believe it. You’re here. You’re from home.”

“It is amazing.”

Ryoka chose her words carefully as she brushed at her wet shirt. Her hand hit a damp, sticky spot and she immediately stopped.

“Um, Erin, right? Why don’t we sit and talk.”

Erin snuffled, sniffled, and nodded. She scooted back to the table while Ryoka tried to collect her thoughts. People. Talking. This wasn’t her forte, but she thought she had a handle on what was happening. First things first.

“I know this is a lot to take in, but let’s both try to calm down. I’m from Earth, and so are you. And I’ve just learned that other people are here too, scattered around the world.”

Erin’s eyes widened.

“We’re not alone? You mean—”

“Yes. And there’s a lot to talk about, but let’s just start with the basics. When did you get here? How did you arrive? What was the last date in our world that you remember? If we start with that, maybe—”

Ryoka broke off suddenly. Erin looked up as someone knocked on the door.

“Oh?”

“Are you expecting guests?”

Erin blinked. The Asian girl had pushed back her chair and was suddenly tensed, like a wild animal. She shrugged.

“Not really, but maybe they’re just late.”

She raised her voice.

“Come in!”

The door opened. Ryoka stared and took a step back as a giant, brownish-black insect walked into the inn. She looked at Erin, but the other girl was smiling. Ryoka’s mouth fell open slightly in surprise.

“Klbkch! Hey! Come on in!”

Ryoka stared as the Antinium nodded to Erin. Then she stared harder as a giant lizard man walked into the room, followed by what looked like a slightly less-hairy Wookie and another lizard. And then the insect talked.

“Good evening Miss Solstice. I hope we are not intruding?”

“What? No. I um—no. Wow. I didn’t expect so many guests so late.”

Ryoka stared at Erin. The other girl was smiling.

“I hope we are not intruding, but our affairs in the city took a long time to conclude.”

“Oh, Krshia, Selys! And Relc and Klbkch—is that—Pawn? Ksmvr?”

Erin caught sight of Zevara and her eyes widened.

“Wow. Um. Are you all here for food?”

“If you are able to host us, it would be most welcome. I regret to say that more guests are with us, however.”

Klbkch nodded to Relc and the others. The door opened wider to admit more bodies.

“And it appears other guests have arrived with us.”

A throng of short creatures entered the room, and this time Ryoka took a step back. She stared at the squat, green, crimson-eyed little demons and looked at Erin. The girl didn’t even appear fazed.

Then a mage stepped into the room. Well, he was obviously a mage by the long robes he wore, but the effect was muted by the grass stains and other marks on the once-white cloth. Ryoka recognized Pisces in an instant and slowly sat down in the chair. Her head was spinning.

When Erin saw Pisces and Rags her jaw dropped. She counted silently as her guests awkwardly stood at the entrance. Some were looking at Erin, but most were staring at each other.

Zevara was eying the Goblins with unconcealed malice and the Goblins were busy edging away from everyone but Erin. The three Antinium looked around silently while Selys stared in horrified fascination at the Antinium, the Goblins, and at Ryoka. Krshia sniffed the air while Relc patted his stomach and Pisces stared around with a half-sneer on his face.

Erin’s head was reeling. She was surprised, caught off-guard, and she had no idea where Toren was. But she was an [Innkeeper]. She might be busy, but she had guests. She rose to the occasion.

“I’ve got pasta!”



—-



Hell is something you create. Ryoka was a firm believer in not believing in religions, but the idea of hell had always been intriguing to her. Obviously a place of brimstone and pitchforks was ridiculous, but the idea of suffering, of damnation was interesting. How could hell be one thing? How could it be a constant, when it should be the representation of misery and suffering for each individual?

Damnation shouldn’t be something you went to. It should be a place you create for yourself out of your own guilt and fear. People create their own hells and sit in them. Ryoka was sure she had read a quote like that somewhere.

Right now, Ryoka was sitting in her own personal, localized hell. She was still in The Wandering Inn, but now it was full of people. Talking, noisy people who kept introducing themselves to her. And unlike every other party she’d been to, every other soiree and social gathering, here she couldn’t run away.

Ryoka sat at a table and stared around the common room of the inn. Suddenly it was bustling. From the quiet, dark room she’d found only an hour or two ago, it had been transformed into a raucous place full of light and noise.

At least half of the raucousness came from a large Drake sitting in the center of the room next to one of the Antinium. He was called Relc, and he’d greeted Ryoka by spraying her with a mouthful of blue juice and shouting ‘It’s you! The Runner human!’

It was a good thing Runners carried a spare change of clothes. At least the Drake’s companion had been polite enough. He was an Antinium. So were the other two black bugs sitting in the room. They’d made Ryoka’s skin crawl when she’d first realized what they were, but now she was just confused.

One of them, an Antinium with only two arms and one leg—was playing chess with one of the Goblins. Pawn and Rags. Ryoka kept feeling at her forehead with the back of her hand to make sure she wasn’t fevered.

And there were more. Erin was buzzing around the room, filling drinks, serving plates of pasta up, but somehow she found time to talk with Ryoka as well. She’d brought another Drake over to Ryoka’s table in the corner of the room. Erin beamed as she introduced her friend.

“Hey Ryoka, this is Selys! Selys, meet Ryoka. She’s a Runner.”

The female Drake – Ryoka was fairly certain she was female – opened her mouth and revealed a row of very sharp teeth.

“Oh, a City Runner? We haven’t had one of those around in a while! How are you?”

“Good.”

Ryoka took Selys’s hand, shook it once, and then quickly let go. It took her all of her self-control not to wipe her hand at the touch of smooth scales.

Erin didn’t seem to notice Ryoka’s discomfort. She turned to Selys, beaming.

“Hey Selys, you won’t believe this. I just talked to Ryoka and guess what? It turns out that—ow!”

Ryoka kicked Erin. She didn’t even try to conceal it. Every head turned towards their table and the room went silent for a second.

Across the room Ksmvr reached for a sword at his side. Ryoka’s spine crawled, but the other Antinium—Klbkch?—instantly smacked Ksmvr’s shoulder and he stopped.

“Um.”

“Oops.”

“Ow, why’d you—”

Erin glanced at Ryoka’s face and back to Selys. She smiled again, although this time it was somewhat forced.

“Well, um. Ryoka, this is Selys. Selys, Ryoka.”

The Drake smiled at Ryoka again, and backed up a little bit. Her tail was twisting around, Ryoka noticed.

“It was…nice to meet you, Miss Ryoka.”

“Likewise.”

The two retreated. Selys pulled Erin aside.

“Is she…sick?”

Erin made a face as she rubbed at her shin. That kick had hurt.

“I don’t know. She was really nice earlier. Sorry about that. Why’s that Zevara person here, by the way?”

“She wanted to see you. I think it was because you killed that skin monster.”

“Me? I didn’t. That was the Goblins.”

Selys rolled her eyes.

“They just finished it off is what Klbkch says. Erin! The entire city’s talking about you!”

“Really?”

“Oh yes. If it weren’t so crazy over there, I’m sure plenty of people would be coming over to look at you.”

“Um.”

Erin wasn’t sure if that was a good thing or a bad thing.

“…How are things? I heard a lot of people died.”

Selys paused. She looked down.

“A lot of people did. Not as many as there could have been, thanks to the Watch and the Antinium but—it’s not the worst disaster we’ve been through. And we’re rebuilding. Stronger with each dead scale, you know?”

“You fought didn’t you? You have to tell me about it!”

“Only if you tell me your side. But guess what? I leveled up! And I gained a new class!”

“What, really?”

“Yep! You’re looking at a Level 4 [Warrior] now!”

Selys puffed out her chest with pride as Erin made appropriate sounds of awe.

“It seems like half the city leveled or gained a new class. That’s war for you. No bad without some good. Anyways, Krshia and I wanted to celebrate and we knew you were alone out here.”

“Well, I have Toren.”

“He doesn’t count. We wanted to come alone, but then Relc decided to come with that Klbkch and Zevara told us she was coming and…”

At this point Ryoka stopped listening to the whispered conversation. She was putting together the pieces, but sleeplessness on top of sudden social interaction after a long day of running was not helping. The only upside was that she was rapidly running out of ways to be surprised. When Ryoka met Pisces, the [Necromancer] who’d fixed her leg and who was apparently teacher to one of the Goblins, she took it in stride.

At some point a skeleton walked into the inn with a huge basket of blue fruits and a bucket of water in each hand. He paused as Zevara and Klbkch unsheathed their swords.

“Stop, stop!”

Erin ran forwards between Toren and the others. Klbkch was already sheathing his sword, but Zevara took several minutes of explaining before she rammed her blade back in its sheath.

Ryoka remained perfectly still as Erin introduced Toren to her. She looked into his deathly gaze and the twin blue flames burning in his eyes and did not shake the proffered bony hand. He disappeared into the kitchen and reappeared with a plate and drink which he served to Ryoka.

Undead service workers. Ryoka instantly saw how useful it could be. It was a great idea in theory, but seeing it in practice was—unnerving. She kept glancing at his bones, wondering how they were even staying upright without muscles and skin. Were there magical, invisible threads animating him somehow?

She ate more food, drank more blue juice. Ryoka’s head was spinning as she asked herself a thousand questions at once. When the Gnoll named Krshia introduced herself Ryoka tried to be polite as possible.

She’d seen other species, of course, but they’d always been monsters. Perhaps she’d seen one or two of these…Gnolls in the cities, but never in person. And here were three—four new races if you counted the Goblins, sitting in the inn, talking, acting like people.

At some point the smallest Goblin hopped up on the seat opposite Ryoka and slapped a chess board in front of her. Ryoka thought she looked familiar, but then the Goblin moved a chess piece and stared at her. Erin wandered by, offering chess tips and then the game and everything else blended into the nightmare.



—-



Ryoka looked like she was having a great time. Erin could tell. She was staring around the inn, chatting to Pawn and playing chess with Rags while other Goblins sat around her and Toren kept filling her cup. She seemed distracted, but then, the inn was more animated than Erin had ever seen it.

“Captain Zevara, another plate of pasta? Or a drink?”

The tall, surly-looking Drake glanced up and waved her hand at Erin.

“I am fine. You are…Erin Solstice, aren’t you? We’ve met.”

“WE have?”

Erin blinked at Zevara and then remembered.

“Oh. We have. After Klbkch—um, how are you?”

Zevara ignored the question as she glanced around the inn.

“I came here because I wanted to see this place for myself. I thought Relc was exaggerating as usual. For once he might have been telling the truth. Although he never mentioned you serving Goblins. Or the skeleton.”

Erin glanced at Relc. The Drake avoided her gaze as Klbkch stared from the Drake to her.

“He hasn’t been around as recently. Um. I hope you like it here?”

“I didn’t come here for pleasure.”

Zevara met Erin’s gaze.

“These Goblins you’re sheltering, and the undead. They are an issue I intend to address, along with the death of the…thing that attacked my city.”

“Um, okay?”

“Zevara. Perhaps now is not the time?”

Klbkch stared at Zevara until she nodded reluctantly. He looked at Erin.

“These are matters of business. But in truth I and the others are here to celebrate the survival of the city. On that note, would you allow me to address the room?”

“What? Oh, sure, go ahead.”

Erin stood back. Klbkch nodded and stood up. She wondered how he would attract everyone’s attention with all the hubbub, but Klbkch simply raised his mug and waited. It took several minutes, but a tall, silent Antinium standing with one mug raised had a calming effect. Klbkch waited until everyone was silent and then spoke.

“To all present, allow me to say a few words. These last few days have been marked by one of the most deadly assaults on Liscor in the last decade. Errors were made on the part of the Antinium and the Watch and for that I must apologize. Needless deaths were caused, but the city and its people remain safe now. The creature which attacked Liscor is dead and as some may have noticed, I have returned to life. It is not in the nature of the Antinium to celebrate, but I adhere to other species’ customs and invite you all to celebrate these events.”

No one spoke. Erin wasn’t sure if she should clap. Klbkch nodded and went on as Ksmvr produced a bottle from somewhere and handed it to him.

“I believe it is customary to make a toast on occasions such as this. For this occasion, my Hive has manufactured its own drink. Allow me to present you with rxlvn, an alcohol we intend to sell.”

He presented a clear, glass bottle filled with some kind of black, foaming liquid to the room.

“Allow me to offer you a drink that we might toast our survival, wellbeing, and the future.”

No one moved. Relc stared at the bottle.

“Klb, that looks like dirt water. Can we even drink that?”

The Antinium nodded.

“It is quite safe, I can assure you. It has been extensively tested on Antinium and while the drink is strong, it is consumable by all present.”

He looked at Erin and she looked at Toren.

“Do we have um, any shot glasses? Anything small?”

They did, in fact. They were more like finger bowls and Erin wasn’t sure what was supposed to go in them. But they made good impromptu shot glasses, and soon each was filled with the fizzing, dark liquid.

Everyone but the Antinium stared into their bowl apprehensively as Klbkch lifted his.

“To life, triumph over the undead, and this inn.”

He drank, tossing the black liquid down calmly. So did Pawn and Ksmvr. No one else did. Krshia was sniffing at the drink suspiciously and Relc tasted the drink with the tip of his tongue.

“It is quite palatable.”

Erin gulped. She saw Ryoka standing away from the group, frowning down into her drink. Well, it wasn’t as if she had to drink the entire thing. She sipped at the drink. Her eyes widened.

“It’s good. Hey, this tastes good everyone!”

They all looked at her. Erin downed the drink and smiled. That seemed to reassure the others. Rags and the Goblins drank their portions down and looked around for more. Krshia tossed hers down and growled happily and Relc and Zevara did the same. Selys and Ryoka drank only a small bit, and Pisces only sipped a few drops.

“Hey it ain’t bad. Good job Klb.”

Relc laughed at his friend as he tossed the shot glass on the table. The others made similar noises of agreement. Krshia inclined her head at the Antinium.

“Perhaps I could find a market for your drink. It is agreeably strong. Gnolls, they would like this I think, yes?”

Klbkch nodded. He was smiling, or doing that raised-mandibles thing.

“It is rather potent in its current form. I regret that this is only a trial run, and the formula is not perfected yet. Perhaps we should have mitigated the effects of the drink with more paralytic agent.”

Everyone stared at him. Erin opened her mouth.

“Um. The what?”

Ryoka felt the top of her mouth go numb. She tried to put down the half-full shot glass but it slipped out of her fingers. She bent to catch it but toppled over.

Klbkch stared at the human girl as she flopped around on the ground, trying ineffectually to push herself up. He glanced around at the other non-Antinium as they began to sway, smile, or regurgitate.

“Ah.”



—-



The three Antinium strode back through the plains, towards Liscor. Or rather, the secret entrance just outside of it. There was no need to bother the guards on the gate at this hour.

And the striding aspect was similarly exaggerated, because two the Antinium were slower than the other. Pawn had to be half-carried by Ksmvr, unable to walk as he was.

Klbkch amended his pace to let the other two catch up. He spoke without turning his head and the other two answered without looking. They had no need of visual interaction. Communication between their own kind did not require social niceties as with other races.

“I regard this night as a positive outcome on the whole, even in light of the failure of the rxlvn. I will make our apologies tomorrow to the others.”

Ksmvr and Pawn didn’t nod. They didn’t have to. But Ksmvr did raise his voice. His tone was uncertain as he addressed Klbkch.

“With all due respect, would the drink not be considered a success, Prognugator? It was strong enough to affect even Relc.”

“Drinking is meant to be a social activity. The effects were too strong. Also, refrain from addressing me as Prognugator. I assumed that role out of necessity during the attack on Liscor. However, you will resume that position forthwith.”

Pawn looked at Ksmvr as the Antinium stared at Klbkch’s back.

“Am I then your superior? Your position—”

“I am second only to the Queen. A new position will be created.”

“I see. And the Individual known as Pawn?”

“For now he will remain under my authority, not yours.”

“I understand.”

The three walked on. Klbkch voice was cold and impartial as he spoke again.

“In the future, have the brewers reduce both alcohol content and soporific and paralytic agents in the drink. As I understand it, the act of drinking is meant to be pleasurable. Unconsciousness is the end result, not the goal.”

“Understood.”

“It will be done.”

“Very well. I will report to the Queen. I will attempt to communicate with Erin Solstice at another time. Ksmvr, return Pawn to the Hive and await instructions in the morning.”

Klbkch strode away before the other two Antinium could respond.

After a while, Pawn spoke.

“Klbkch’s motives are unclear to me. But I suppose this means I will no longer be a worker.”

Ksmvr’s voice was no longer hesitant. He replied impartially to Pawn.

“That is what we were ordered. You will, of course, obey.”

“Of course. I am loyal to the Hive. I have chosen.”

“Yet you have expressed your dissatisfaction with me to Klbkch. I am your Prognugator.”

“That is true. And you cut off my arms and leg.”

“I did what was necessary for the Hive.”

“Yes. You did.”

“You also instigated Workers to leave the Hive against my orders.”

“I suppose I did.”

The two moved on in silence. After a while Ksmvr spoke.

“Your affection for me is not necessary. However, for the good of the Hive we must work together.”

“I serve the Hive. I am loyal to the Queen.”

“Good.”

“But I still hate you.”

More silence.

“It is suggested by other species that a period of bonding may occur by shared experiences.”

“Indeed?”

“I suggest this as an attempt to amend the distrust between us.”

“I see.”

“Do you have any suggestions in this regard?”

Pawn was silent. His only leg dragged along the ground. He turned his head slightly to Ksmvr.

“Tell me. Do you know how to play chess?”



—-



The next day, Selys woke up in a room on the second floor of The Wandering Inn, next to a wet, hairy carpet. That carpet turned out to be Krshia, and the two turned out to be sharing the same bed.

Selys stared at Krshia in shock until the Gnoll opened her eyes. Krshia glared at the sun, and then blinked a few times at Selys.

“Good morning, Selys.”

“Um.”

Selys squeaked. She stared in horror at Krshia and then looked down. Their clothes were missing. She thought she saw her dress hanging out the open window. That was important, but her eyes kept getting drawn back to the Gnoll sleeping next to her. Right next to her.

“Um. Uh. Hi Krshia. You wouldn’t happen to know—did we um—did we—?”

Krshia shrugged, and then sniffed hard. She shook her head.

“Hr. Nothing happened.”

Selys almost thought she heard the Gnoll mutter ‘pity’.

“Oh. Good. I’m um—I’m just—I have to—”

Selys rolled out of bed, fled the inn, and locked herself in her apartment for the rest of the day.



—-



Two hours after Selys fled, Relc found himself lying in the plains, completely naked. He stood up, looked for his clothing, and gave up. The naked Drake strolled through the southern gates of Liscor around the same time the Watch Captain was found passed out in one of the street gutters.



—-



Six hours before Relc caused a disturbance, Pisces woke up with light shining on his face. He waved his hands feebly and then sat up. What he’d thought was the sun turned out to be something else. He stared at the flickering magic and turned pale.



—-



Around an hour after everyone had vacated the inn, Erin slumped at a table, blearily watching Toren as he moved around the room, picking up plates and mugs and bringing them to the kitchen.

“See that? That’s useful. Like a…dishwasher with legs. And a sword.”

She wasn’t drunk. The Antinium’s alcohol had tasted bitterly dark with just a hint of something fruity, but it hadn’t done anything for Erin. It was the [Alcohol Immunity]. She wasn’t drunk.

“If I had ten of him…I’d probably hate it. You know he stands in a corner? Very creepy. Veeeeery creepy.”

She was just tired. Ryoka on the other hand was drunk. But she was still able to stand upright, which was quite impressive. Then again, everyone else had been upright as they staggered out of the inn. Only the Goblins had taken the shot and fallen right down. They were still lying on the floor, insensible. Rags was sprawled face-down on one of the tables, clutching a chess piece in one hand.

Erin wasn’t sure why she was awake. She really wanted to sleep, but Ryoka was still awake. The other girl was clearly trying to keep herself upright and Erin felt it was only courteous to do the same.

Ryoka blinked several times and frowned. She was swaying in her seat. The other girl was muttering, her voice slurred.

“We have to talk. This is—crucial. Something about people? If we’re all here, what does that mean?”

“I don’t know? I didn’t know there were people.”

Ryoka frowned at her, and then nodded with difficulty.

“When you got here. That was important? When you…got here. Something about that.”

She put a hand to her head and frowned hard. Erin shrugged. She was drifting off on a sea of clouds. That’s what the table felt like. She closed her eyes, and then jerked upright. Ryoka nearly fell out of her seat.

Erin decided she had to be the voice of reason.

“It’s too late for this. We should sleep.”

Ryoka thought about this. After a moment she nodded.

“Tomorrow. But we must talk.”

“Yes. But after we sleep.”

The two agreed. They nodded so much they nearly fell asleep.

“Upstairs is a bed. You can have one.”

Erin wandered over to her kitchen. Ryoka frowned at her and then looked at the door.

“You don’t lock the doors?”

“Should I?”

“Yes.”

Erin didn’t see the point. She wavered. It was such a long way to the doors. But then Toren walked over and bolted it. She smiled. She was saved! She could go to sleep.

“There. Locked.”

Ryoka looked at the doors, squinting. Then she nodded, apparently satisfied. Without another word she stumbled towards the stairs. Erin heard her bumping into things on the way up.

Time for bed. Erin was exhausted. She stumbled towards her bedding, too tired to even think about undressing or brushing her teeth. She rolled into her blankets and stared at the roof.

So tired. So exhausted. So much money made from her guests! But all that was a backdrop to the most important thing. It had lit her up, given her wings as she’d served her guests. It was important, the only thing that mattered.

Erin whispered it up to the ceiling.

“I’m not alone.”

She smiled, and drifted off to sleep with that wonderful feeling still in her chest.

Happiness.



—-



Erin had about half an hour of sleep before the door to her inn exploded inwards. As she ran out of the kitchen she saw Pisces standing in the doorway, hands wreathed in crackling lightning. His face was pale.

Ryoka stood poised on the stairway, ready to leap down on the mage. But she stopped. Something was glowing in the dark inn, and not just the magic coiling around the mage’s hands.

A spark of light flickered and hovered around Pisces’ head. A dancing firefly made of colors and shapes. They spelled out words and meaning Ryoka couldn’t read, but she recognized them. She recognized the spell. She sat down on the stairway, legs suddenly out of energy.

Erin blinked at the burnt wood of her doorway. Oh. She’d locked it. She looked at Pisces and opened her mouth to yell, but hesitated.

“Pisces, what…?”

The mage’s face was pale as he stared at Erin. He said only two words.

“They’re alive.”





2.02


“Who’s ‘they’?”

“Pisces didn’t say. He only said that if Ceria was alive there could be others.”

“And she’s alive?”

“Yes! The message-spell-thingy said she needed help. She’s somewhere in the Ruins, down deep.”

“And with Relc and Klbkch you think you can save them, right?”

“Yeah!”

“Forget it.”

Erin paused.

“…What?”

Zevara held a wet washcloth to her head and scowled at Erin over her desk.

“I said no. I’m not sending two of my best guardsmen into that place without a good reason. You want to save those damn adventurers? Do it yourself.”

“But we need them! Relc and Klbkch—they’re Senior Guardsmen. They can fight.”

“They’re Senior Guardsmen.”

Zevara agreed as she absently massaged her temples.

“But they’re under no obligation to help non-citizens. Which is what you are. Moreover, I won’t risk losing Klbkch again. Not after last time.”

Erin opened her mouth to protest, and the Captain of the Watch stared pointedly at her.

“Not again.”

Erin closed her mouth and frowned stubbornly.

“I’ll just ask them to help on their own time, then.”

“I’ll forbid them to help you. They’re valuable assets to the city.”

“You can’t do that!”

“Watch me.”

Erin stared at Zevara. The Drake’s eyes were a light purple, and she held Erin’s gaze until the human looked away.

“You—you—”

“If you’re done, get out. I’ve got a city to protect, and I don’t need to listen to a human squawking at me.”

For one second, the girl thought about flipping Zevara’s desk over and spilling all her neat paperwork on the floor. She didn’t because it wouldn’t help anything, and because the desk looked really heavy.

Plus, Selys had told her that Zevara could breathe fire.

The girl stomped to the door and Zevara winced and scowled at her. Erin turned, hand on the doorknob.

“If they die, it’s your fault.”

Zevara’s face was stony.

“Tell that to the people who have already died.”

There was nothing she could say to that, so Erin left. She slammed the door as hard as she could behind her. That made her feel a little better.

Ryoka was waiting impatiently at the foot of the stairs as Erin came down. The taller girl was practically bouncing on her bare feet, ignoring the stares she was getting from the other guardsmen in the Watch’s barracks.

“Well?”

Erin shook her head glumly.

“We’re not getting any help from the Watch. And um, I think we should leave. Now.”

They did. Ryoka stopped a few feet outside of the squat, two-story building and turned to Erin.

“I thought you said we could get help.”

“I thought we would! But it looks like people sort of blame the adventurers for the attack. Which is fair.”

“Fair?”

Erin flinched at Ryoka’s glare. She hadn’t known the other girl long, but Ryoka seemed to have two settings: intense and brooding. And right now she was practically vibrating with energy. She would have rushed to the Ruins as soon as Pisces had come to them if it weren’t for the fact that both she and Erin were exhausted and drunk. Even so, she’d been up at the crack of dawn demanding to be led to the Ruins.

“That mage – Pisces said that he’ll go down to look for the Horns of Hammerad. I’ll go with him now. You try to convince other people to help.”

Ryoka turned and Erin grabbed her arm. The Runner jumped and glared and Erin let go quickly.

“Sorry. Look, you want to go into the super-scary Ruins with Pisces?”

“Yes. The Horns are down there. I’m going in after them.”

“But with Pisces?”

“He’s a necromancer, right? I know he’s powerful.”

“Yeah, but he’s…Pisces, y’know?”

Ryoka just stared. Erin scratched at her head. It was only just past morning in the city and her head still felt full of clouds.

“You really care about them, don’t you? I mean, I do too, but Ryoka, this is crazy.”

Ryoka shrugged.

“I owe them a debt. I’ll go down there myself and come out with them or stay there forever.”

Now that sounded heroic and pretty crazy. Erin opened her mouth and raised a finger.

“Or we could get reinforcements.”

“You said that about your two guardsmen friends.”

“I did. But I know more people. Zevara said she’d forbid Relc and Klbkch from coming. Well, she can do that, but I bet Klb’s more important than her.”

“Fine. Let’s ask him.”

Ryoka turned and began walking. She moved so quick! Her version of walking was Erin’s version of a jog. The girl made it ten feet and then turned around and glared at Erin.

“Well? What are you waiting for?”

Erin smiled desperately and looked around.

“Um, I’ve never really been to the Hive. We might have to ask for directions or find a Worker.”

“A what?”



—-



Slow people. Slow conversations. The Horns of Hammerad are alive! I should be running down to the Ruins now, but I’m stuck here with a girl who doesn’t seem to understand the meaning of haste*.



*Or a lot of other things, if I’m honest. She’s a person from my world, I get that. But is she just completely airheaded or does she not take everything seriously? She hangs out with talking bugs and doesn’t even blink at crazed demon midgets**.

**Goblins.



Time. It all comes down to time. Not everything’s a 400 meter dash, but some things come down to seconds.

This is an emergency. My frien—Ceria and the others are alive. At least she is. And she’s been down in the Ruins for days, possibly without water or food all that time. She is alive.

I have to help her. But somehow I’m stuck following Erin Solstice around. She’s fine. She’s an innkeeper. But she doesn’t seem to understand how important this is.

I had to push her to run through the streets and she stopped when she got embarrassed from people staring. We found the Hive, and the strange Worker insect disappeared inside for a few minutes before he came out with the strange Antinium.

Antinium. The murderous invaders from across the world. I could use an entire army of them, but it seems like we’re not going to get any.

“—And then she said she’d forbid you to help! Can you believe that?”

What is it with this girl and talking to people? I should just go. Now. But—

Zombies? Erin did say there were zombies, right?

Can I fight zombies? Would punching them even work?

What if I get bit?

I have to go.

Klbkch, the Antinium with only two arms stares first at Erin, and then me. I don’t like him. He drugged us last night, or slipped us some kind of magical alcohol. I took a sip of that and went insane.

What does he want? Why does Erin think he’ll help her? If he’s the Prognugator of the Hive here he should be far too important to want to deal with us.

Unless he suspects where we’re from. Or is it something else? That book said Antinium don’t have names except for the Prognugator and Queens. So why did I meet two other Antinium with names?

Focus. I have to save Ceria and the others.

“So um. Can we have a few of those big soldier guys?”

Klbkch crosses his arms and seems to think. The Worker that got him left the instant he completed his task, but Klbkch came out of the hive with the Antinium with swords. Ksmvr. He makes me just as uneasy. Is he a bodyguard? Some new form of Antinium? Or is that Klbkch? They’re not supposed to have only two arms.

At last, Klbkch shakes his head reluctantly.

“I am sorry Erin, but I cannot assist you.”

Her face falls. I heard some people wear their feelings on their sleeve, but Erin paints it on a sign and waves it around wherever she goes.

“What? Why?”

“By the agreement made with Liscor, we may not bring out Soldiers above-ground unless requested by a figure of authority or in times of war or defense of the city.”

Damn, damn, damn. But I guess it’s my turn. If I could get some of those soldiers Erin is talking about…I clear my throat. Klbkch looks at me. I hate talking to strangers.

“Correct me if I’m wrong, but aren’t the Ruins a clear threat? That’s where these undead came from, right? Neutralizing it would constitute defense of the city.”

Not good. Two interrogative statements. I should be making declaratives and speaking confidently. That’s what good old dad taught me. Look people in the eye, speak clearly, and lie through your teeth when you have to.

Klbkch nods at me, and takes his time replying, like a lawyer building his case.

“That is true under a certain interpretation. But I believe many would see it as a dangerous precedent, especially given the failure of the Antinium to act during the undead attack.”

“No. Klbkch, we need help. Really badly. Ryoka and I can’t go down there by ourselves. Or even with Toren and Pisces.”

Whoa. Slow down. Did she just say she was going with me? And what was that? Toren? The skeleton? She wants to take a skeleton to fight against its kind? Can she even trust that thing?

Klbkch just nods as if it’s all natural, though.

“I understand. But my Queen would take Zevara’s view, I fear. I can render some aid, though.”

“Really?”

He nods. Klbkch looks over his shoulder at the other Antinium.

“Ksmvr. Go with Erin Solstice and protect her.”

The other Antinium’s mandibles spread wide, their version of a surprised expression, I guess.

“I? But I am Prognugator. I cannot—”

“Silence. You will go.”

Klbkch turns back to Erin and bows his head politely. Why do I get something of a Japanese vibe from the Antinium? Stereotypes about the Japanese corporate life aside, maybe because they’re so polite.

A single warrior from a Hive that’s capable of fielding thousands of soldiers at any given moment seems weak to me, but Erin smiles.

“So you’re not going to try and stop me, then?”

“If I told you not to go, I believe you would. You and Relc share the same tendencies.”

“That’s not a compliment.”

“I am aware.”

Okay, if that’s all, it’s time to go.

“It’s time to go. Let’s get to the Ruins.”

Erin shakes her head. Is she mule headed or does she not realize that we need to hurry?

“Not yet. Krshia and Selys might be able to help. Let’s go see them.”

Unless they’re both secretly incredible warriors I doubt it. But Klbkch seems approving. He nods to me as I hurry Erin away.

His voice is soft, but I hear him talking quietly to the other one, Ksmvr as I go. Erin doesn’t notice. She’s too busy deciding whether to see Krshia or Selys first. But I hear him.

“Protect Erin and those she travels with. Her life is more important than yours. If she is harmed or dies, I will see you deconstructed.”

Something else to think about, but not now. I keep pushing Erin, ignoring her complaints that her feet hurt. We can’t slow. I can’t stop.

We have to hurry.

I won’t be too late again.



—-



“Will you not wait a day?”

“No.”

Ryoka said it before Erin could even respond. It was incredible, but the other girl was even more hyperactive than before. She was shifting from leg to leg, checking the position of the sun and the time on her iPhone every few seconds.

“We can’t wait, Krshia. If Ceria’s down there, she might be in danger even as we speak.”

“Hrm. But it is very dangerous. That creature of skin, there may be more, yes? And even if there is not, many undead did not perish in the attack. They will all be waiting down there.”

“Will you come or not?”

Erin winced. Being blunt and rude towards a Gnoll was…well, actually it wasn’t a bad thing. Krshia snorted in amusement at Ryoka.

“Patience, young huntress. Even with Ksmvr, warrior that he is, you two and the mage and skeleton are not enough, yes? I suggest waiting because in time help may arrive.”

“Help? What kind of help?”

Krshia smiled at Erin.

“Several of my tribe come down the southern road. They will be here today, if not earlier. They are warriors all, and they will surely help find your humans for you.”

Krshia’s words sparked a memory in Ryoka’s head. She stared at the Gnoll. It couldn’t be a coincidence. Erin shook her head at Krshia.

“We can’t wait. I’m sorry, but we’re going in. Will you come?”

Regretfully, Krshia shook her head.

“I cannot. I must wait for my kin and my arrows would do little good against dead things.”

Erin exhaled hard. She’d thought that was the case, but it still hurt.

“Okay. Okay. In that case I need to buy some stuff.”

Krshia spread her paws.

“My shop is open. I have healing potions which I will give you, and you may pay me later. What do you need? Ask.”

“Frying pans, knives…actually, rocks will do. So only frying pans.”

“Frying pans?”

Krshia looked dubious, but she saw Erin was serious.

“Very well. I have good ones of cast iron. How many do you wish for?”

“Two…three…how many do you have?”

Erin took only a minute to select the right frying pans. Then she turned and nodded at Ryoka.

“Selys, then. She might be able to help. If not we’ll go.”

The other girl didn’t move. She was staring at Krshia, frowning. Ryoka seemed to be struggling with something, and both of the other females finally noticed it. Krshia smiled at Ryoka.

“Do you have something you wish to say?”

“These other Gnolls you said were coming. They’re coming up the south road?”

“Yes. If you wait, they will be here soon.”

“No. They won’t.”

Krshia frowned at Ryoka.

“What makes you sure of that?”

“They’re dead. I saw them.”

Erin looked from Ryoka back to Krshia just in time to see the Gnoll shopkeeper go completely still. Her tail, usually gently wagging, stopped. Her ears froze and her pupils dilated. She stared at Ryoka.

“Explain.”

“I found a group of dead Gnolls on my way to Liscor. They were around forty miles away from the city, all of them killed. Something cut them apart.”

Krshia flexed her hand by her side. Both Erin and Ryoka’s eyes were drawn downwards when she did. Normally, Krshia had a paw for a hand, furrier than a human’s but generally the same. Now her claws seemed to lengthen. Maybe it was a trick of the light. But to look at Krshia’s hands at that moment was to remember that she had nails. Long and sharp nails, the kind you could use to cut someone to ribbons.

The Gnoll stared down at Ryoka silently. Her face was expressionless, and her voice equally devoid of emotion.

“Who?”

“I don’t know. But a few hours later I met someone on the road. A woman with a large eye named Gazi.”

Erin stared in open-mouthed astonishment at Ryoka, but Krshia only nodded.

“Thank you for telling me this, Ryoka Griffin. I trust you are not lying?”

“No.”

Krshia inclined her head slowly.

“I thought as much and sense the truth of it. Very well. You must go. Save your friends.”

Erin hesitated, but Ryoka pulled her away. The two girls ran down the street as Krshia watched them go.

The Gnoll was silent as she stood behind her stall full of carefully arranged wares. Another Drake trotted up, happy to be served at last. Krshia turned to look at him and his scales turned grey and he stumbled away.

Slowly, Krshia turned and went back into her small stall. She pawed around near the back, until she came to a long, rolled up bundle placed carefully on top of a few crates. Krshia brought it back and laid it on her counter, brushing aside her display to make room.

She did not move any faster than usual. There would be time enough for that, later.

Krshia unwrapped the bow and stood it upright in her shop. She drew the string out of the bundle, checking to make sure it was still oiled and unfrayed. Then she began stringing the bow.

Across the street Lism, the waste of fur of a shopkeeper, was marching towards Krshia. Probably to complain about one of the two humans. Krshia took no notice of him. She reached into the bundle and pulled out a wrapped bundle.

Lism took one look at the huge broadhead arrows Krshia unwrapped from their wax paper covering and immediately turned around and walked away. The other pedestrians on the street took one look at the shopkeeper arming herself and made themselves scarce.

The bow was strung, and Krshia put the arrows in a quiver at her side. She was ready. She opened the side panel of her shop and stepped out.

Then she raised her head to the sky and began to howl.



—-



Selys had no better news for Erin. The Drake only shook her head and spread her hands helplessly.

“Sorry, Erin. I know this is serious but no one wants to go into the Ruins. Not after what came out.”

“But there are other adventurers trapped down there. Friends. Comrades in arms and that sort of thing. You’re saying no one will help?”

“All the best human adventurers went down with the Horns of Hammerad. The ones who are left are, well…”

“We’re just smarter than that lot, that’s all.”

Both Drake and human turned to look at who had spoken. A Drake with a sword sat with his feet up at a table, balancing on the chair with his tail. He laughed as his friends, all Drakes, started making jokes about the adventurers.

Erin stared around the room desperately. There weren’t all Drake and Gnolls in the room. Some humans were there too, but none of them would meet her eyes. Or the ones that did were laughing at the adventurers.

“Won’t any of you help? Please, they’re in trouble.”

“They should have gotten themselves out of trouble or not gone looking for it in the first place, Human.”

The Drake who had first spoken laughed again with his buddies.

“Or maybe they just ran the instant they saw undead and got themselves killed. Either way, we’re not risking our hides for a few idiots.”

“Cowards.”

Ryoka said it loudly, and it had the same effect as a knife. It cut through the sound and laughter and made the Drake who had spoken sit forwards with a thump.

The mood changed. The adventurers at the table glared at Ryoka. She glared back.

“I thought adventurers were supposed to be brave. You lot should get rid of your swords and become Runners. At least they get paid to run away.”

The Drakes at the table stood up, hissing angrily. Selys banged her hand on the counter.

“Stop that! No fighting! This city’s had enough of it!”

The Drakes hesitated. The mood in the room wasn’t on their side, and they weren’t itching for a fight in any case.

They sat back down. Perhaps it was the look in Ryoka’s eye and the rumors about a crazed Runner girl with bare feet. But it was probably because of the look Erin gave them. Everyone had heard about the human who slew the monster made of skin.

“I’m sorry.”

Selys apologized again, but Erin just shook her head. Ryoka was already leaving the Guild, and Erin ran after her with a hurried apology for Selys.

This time Ryoka set a course for the gates of the city without even talking. Erin had to walk quickly to catch up. The two girls walked through the crowds of people silently.

They heard the howling begin as they left the Adventurer’s Guild. It was immediately joined by more voices of other Gnolls around the city, so that the streets rang with the sound and Drakes and Humans froze and stared around wildly. But neither girl so much as looked up.

“Well. Ksmvr said he’d meet us at the Ruins. That’s something.”

“I suppose. Do you have anything you need at the inn?”

“Yeah. Give me a few minutes and I’ll be good to go.”

“Good. I’ll help you grab everything. We need food, water, healing potions—”

Erin lifted the bag she’d carried from Krshia’s store. She had healing potions, and the three frying pans she’d brought. Ryoka eyed them but made no comment. After a moment Erin asked the question on her mind.

“You met Gazi?”

“You know her?”

“Yeah. She was at my inn. She helped me out too, when I first met her. She was, um, nice. Do you think she really…?”

“I don’t know. But she was close to those Gnolls and she pretended not to know what I was talking about when I asked.”

Ryoka walked on and hesitated.

“She…bothered me.”

“Was it the eye? That creeped me out a bit.”

“No. It was her. I can’t explain it, but each of those Gnolls that died was beheaded. With a single cut.”

“Oh. She has…a really sharp sword.”

“Really?”

“Yes.”

They said nothing more until they got back to the inn. It took them only fifteen minutes, and Erin was gasping for breath when they got there. Ryoka looked at her in way that made Erin feel certain she was judging her. She wasn’t even sweating.

It was cold anyways, not the right temperature for sweating. It didn’t feel like winter, but then, maybe they were in the equivalent of Florida or something. Erin opened the door and jumped back.

Toren stood in the doorway, holding his sword. He stared curiously at Erin as Ryoka raised her fists and stepped back.

“Toren! Don’t stand with a sword in the doorway! Come on; help me!”

Erin pushed the skeleton aside and Toren sheathed his sword and began following her around as she yelled out instructions. Ryoka watched the skeleton warily, but Toren meekly ran about, gathering a few glowing green jars, supplies, and for some reason, several rocks from outside.

“Ready!”

Erin reappeared a few minutes later with a bulging rucksack, and all three frying pans strapped to it. Ryoka eyed the bag. Well, Erin could always stay in the back and carry the food. She had no idea how deep the Ruins were. She had no idea of anything, really.

It was the worst possible way to enter a dangerous area, but Ryoka had no choice. She had to go.

“Are you done? Let’s get moving.”

“Okay. Toren will carry everything until we get there.”

So saying, Erin handed the heavy pack to the skeleton. He accepted it without complaint and staggering a bit, followed Erin and Ryoka. Ryoka thrust open the door and paused.

Several Goblins jumped back, and one screamed in a high-pitched voice. Ryoka nearly threw herself back into Erin before she remembered these were nominally friendly Goblins.

“Rags!”

Erin pushed past Ryoka as the smallest Goblin stared up at Ryoka suspiciously. She smiled at the Goblin.

“I’m glad you’re here. We need your help!”

Ryoka did a double take as Rags blinked in surprise. Surely Erin wasn’t considering…?

She was.

In a few sentences Erin described the message Pisces had gotten, and their mission to enter the Ruins. Rags listened attentively while the rest of her group stared around idly or picked at their noses and ate what came out.

Erin finished with a short plea.

“You understand, don’t you? You’ll help, right?”

Rags thought for a second, pondering all she had heard. Then she looked up at Erin and shook her head.

“What?”

Erin stared down at the Goblin. Rags shrugged at her.

“But they’re in trouble. And you can help! You’ve got a sword and your tribe. We need you, Rags.”

Again, Rags shrugged. Erin didn’t speak Goblin and Rags wasn’t speaking, but she got a definite sense of indifference from the small Goblin. What had the Horns of Hammerad ever done for her? Why should she risk her neck?

“Rags, please. They’ll die if we can’t get to them. Remember Ceria? Remember Calruz?”

Rags scowled at Erin and turned away. Her attitude seemed to indicate that if there wasn’t any food or chess to be had, there was no point in being here.

That was the last straw. Erin had listened to grouchy Zevara, surprisingly unhelpful Klbkch, Krshia and the idea that Gazi was evil, and a room full of useless adventurers. Her patience finally ran out. She snapped.

“Hey!”

She grabbed Rags bodily and lifted her up. The Goblin shouted in outrage and tried to break free, but Erin just glared at her.

“I’m asking you for help. You owe me. I’ve fed you and given you help and even the sword and shield! I even made Pisces teach you magic! Now I need help saving my friends.”

Rags growled at Erin and kicked at her. Erin bit back a yelp as one bare foot kicked her in the chest. Hard.

“That’s it.”

The small Goblins grabbed at the sheathed short sword at her waist, but Erin just turned her upside down and began to shake. The Goblin’s head and body bounced around wildly as Erin shook the small Goblin, shouting loudly.

“Help—me! Help—us!”

She lifted Rags up and down by the ankles, so that the small Goblin bounced up and down like a bungee jumper. To Ryoka it looked like one of the rides at an amusement park that send hapless riders down a hundred feet per second out of the sky, except here no one was amused. Except for her and the other Goblins, of course.

“I’m not gonna stop until you say yes! Say yes! Say it!”

The Goblin screamed and tried to bite and punch at Erin, but to no avail. Erin whirled Rags around by the legs in a circle as the Goblin screamed. Ryoka had done that as a kid with her father, once or twice. But it had been her holding on as he whirled her around by the arms, not the legs. The way Erin was doing it to Rags was a lot faster, more dangerous, and a lot less fun.

At last, Rags screamed something loudly and Erin stopped. The girl glared at the Goblin as Rags hung upside-down in the air, even greener than normal.

“You’re going to help? Promise?”

Rags nodded weakly. Erin dropped her.

The Goblin landed with a thump in the grass. For a second Ryoka thought she was going to run, but when Rags pushed herself up the Goblin could only stagger around drunkenly.

“Run away and I’ll throw a rock at you. And you know I’ll hit you.”

Erin threatened Rags. Ryoka wondered how credible that was—Erin didn’t seem like she was the athletic type, and Ryoka seriously doubted she’d ever played baseball. Maybe softball, at best. She didn’t seem like the competitive type.

Rags glared at Erin, stumbled a few feet away, and threw up noisily in the grass. She paused after vomiting up a considerable amount of undigested food, thought for second, and then threw up again.

Erin stumbled as she turned, dizzy from the swinging herself. She nearly walked into another Goblin. Rag’s small posse was alternating between glaring at her and staring at the vomit in the grass with curiosity or hunger.

Maybe they were protective of their boss. She didn’t care. Erin glared at them.

“You wanna fight? Huh?”

The Goblins looked at their leader, still noisily being sick in the grass. They looked back at the Destroyer, Slayer of the Skin Monster, Provider of Pasta and Free Drinks. They backed up quickly.

Rags was nearly done puking. The Goblin wiped at her mouth and said something in her scratchy language. Erin pointed at her.

“You’re helping. No arguments. You and your tribe—”

Erin hesitated and turned around. The area was already emptying out of Goblins as they ran away.

“Damn it.”

Ryoka glanced at her. The girl’s earlier amusement at the spectacle had evaporated like the other Goblins.

“We’ve got to go. Why do you want the Goblin, anyways? Even her tribe wouldn’t be much help.”

Erin disagreed.

“She’s got a sword and a shield. Plus, she knows magic.”

Ryoka paused.

“…She does?”

“Yeah, maybe not as much as you, but some. And she was the one who killed the super-evil-skin-worm monster that was leading the undead.”

Ryoka stared at her. Erin threw up her hands.

“It’s true! Why does no one believe that?”



—-



They met Pisces waiting at the Ruins. The mage was antsy, and he hadn’t brought anything but his customarily dirty robes. He didn’t have his usual sneer though, and he was nervous. Possibly the only person more nervous than him was Ksmvr.

“I would deem it far more prudent for you to remain behind, Erin Solstice. You are no warrior, and the Ruins are dangerous.”

“They’re my friends. I’m going in there.”

Erin glared at Ksmvr. The Antinium wavered, and then sighed.

“Very well. But remain behind me at all times.”

Rags glared at the Antinium as he looked down at her, and then at Toren.

“You have chosen an unusual group.”

“No one else would come.”

“I see.”

Ryoka ignored the two and marched up to Pisces. He looked at her with the expression of someone trying to recall her name. She didn’t care.

“Did you get another message from them?”

He shook his head.

“Possibly something is blocking Ceria. Or her mana might still be low. It is possible if she is…wounded.”

“Right then, let’s find her.”

“I suppose so. But there’s a ah, problem.”

“What’s that?”

He nodded at the vast entrance to the ruins.

“The guardsmen won’t let us in.”

After the attack on Liscor, a palisade and deep ditch had been dug, and the guards at the entrance to the Ruins were now twenty strong, armed with arrows and torches and even a Drake mage in robes at the back. The guardsman in charge stared at Erin and the others as they marched up.

“We’re going in.”

The Drakes and Gnolls stared at Erin as she stood in front of them. One of them laughed, but stopped when no one joined them. Their leader, a Drake with maroon scales shook his head.

“No one goes in or out. Zevara’s orders.”

“She knows we’re going in.”

“She does?”

“She does.”

He shook his head.

“I can’t let you in without word from her.”

“That is regrettable.”

Ksmvr called from behind Erin. He shook his head.

“We should return to the city. It would not do to stand in defiance of the law.”

Ryoka opened her mouth—for what, she didn’t know. A threat? She wasn’t sure of anything that would work. But Erin just narrowed her eyes.

“You’ll let us in.”

“Or what?”

“Or I’ll hurt you.”

The Drake stared at Erin. She glared at him. He had nearly a head of height on her not counting his helmet, and he had a spear and nineteen guardsmen at his back. All Erin had was a frying pan. But he remembered where Skinner had died and he had [Dangersense] too. The look in Erin’s eyes made him reconsider his next words.

“We will send word to the city. If you’ll wait.”

Erin pushed him. The Drake stumbled back and nearly ran into the sharpened wall of stakes. Erin stomped past him without another word, and the others followed. Ryoka stared open-mouthed at her back and then hurried to catch up.

The Ruins were dark, and the open stone doors were just as foreboding as before. But despite the ominous blackness from within, Erin knew there was no turning back. But she did have a thought.

“Um. Did anyone bring a candle?”

“[Light].”

Pisces and Ryoka said it at the same time as Rags muttered something. Three orbs of shimmering light flew upwards as all three blinked at each other.

“Good, then we’re…good.”

Erin looked back into the Ruins. Here be monsters, she thought to herself. Nasty, undead monsters. This was the place where Skinner had come from. This is the place where countless adventurers had died.

Death lurked below, waiting. But so too did the Horns of Hammerad. There was no choice. Erin took a deep breath.

“Ready?”

Pisces looked green, but he nodded. Rags scowled at Erin and Ryoka and the ground. Toren’s sword was already drawn and the skeleton scanned the dark entrance.

Ksmvr stepped forwards.

“Allow me to go first, Miss Solstice. I will scout ahead and signal you when it is safe to proceed.”

“No. We go in together.”

He hesitated, but Erin pushed past him. Ryoka blinked in surprise. Erin walked into the darkness of the ruins, and then turned.

“Well? I can’t see anything if you guys don’t follow.”

The others hesitated, but then they walked forwards. Ryoka passed into the darkness and shivered. Her tongue was in her mouth and her heart was pounding. She was afraid. For the first time she was truly afraid. Of the unknown. Of what she did not know. Of being too late.

But she had to go.

A dirty [Necromancer], a Goblin, an undead skeleton, the Prognugator of an Antinium Hive, an [Innkeeper] and a City Runner walked into the Ruins. It sounded like the beginning of a joke, but what would the punch line be?

Gazi the Omniscient sat with her back to a slope several hundred meters away. Her main eye pointed into the back of her head as she tracked the progress of the strange group as they descended into the Ruins.

Let’s see. By primary classes they were…

A Level 12 [Warrior] Antinium.

A Level 27 [Necromancer] with [Mage] class levels.

A Level 8 [Warrior], Level 6 [Mage] and Level 10 [Tactician] Goblin.

A Level 11 [Skeleton Warrior] carrying a ruby enchanted with [Terror].

A Level 18 [Innkeeper] Human.

And a level-less Runner Human.

A joke, then. Something about Ruins? Or the undead. They could be humorous. Gazi frowned. She’d work on it while she waited for them to come back out. She had plenty of time.

But then, she could hardly wait. She was patient, had been patient, but now Gazi was buzzing with anticipation. She polished her sword, humming quietly, waiting. A tightly sealed scroll with a glowing rune etched onto a wax seal sat in the grass next to her.

It was finally time to go home.





2.03


It was an odd procession that walked down the empty halls of Liscor’s undead ruins. Not that the ruins were undead; rather, they were infested with the undead.

In theory. No one had seen a corpse yet, living, undead, or just dead. But they were ready.

Still, it was an odd group Ryoka found herself walking with. And an odd formation as well. She hadn’t given it any thought when she’d known she was going in to find her friends. Ryoka had assumed she’d be running into the ruins as fast as she could, avoiding traps and monsters every foot until she found the Horns of Hammerad.

It would have been a suicide run in any case. What would she have done even if she’d found them? Carried them out on her shoulders hundreds of feet while dodging monsters, armor and all? She couldn’t even lift Calruz.

She hadn’t been thinking. That would have killed both her and the people she had come to rescue. She had to use her head.

Some thought then, had gone into the procession that walked through the ruins. The group had decided to walk two abreast, so that no one was without a partner, but also so they were staggered out in case something came from behind.

It felt like one of those horror movies to Erin, but at least this time she’d placed herself in the middle. And they were walking together, not with one idiot stuck in the back where no one could hear them. Even so, she kept looking over her shoulder every few minutes.

Somewhat predictably, Ksmvr was stuck in the front with Toren. No one wanted to walk with him and Toren could see just as easily in the dark as in the light. Pisces and Rags walked in the rear, theoretically furthest away in danger but hypothetically first to be stabbed in the back. But between Rag’s ears and Pisces’ paranoia, ambush was unlikely.

That left Erin and Ryoka in the center. They walked together, looking around as they passed from room to room in complete silence.

That didn’t mean their group was silent of course. Ksmvr glided through the darkness like a ghost, but Toren rattled when he walked. Pisces muttered to himself as he shuffled and tripped over his robes, Rags scuffed along and Erin—

She literally clanked as she walked. Ryoka wanted to ask what all the frying pans were for, let alone the bag of rocks but she was too busy looking around in the darkness.

She and Ksmvr would have to do most of the fighting, depending on how useful this Pisces was. She almost wished she could tell Erin not to come. Her and that Goblin—how useful could they really be? Ryoka kept worrying as she searched for the first shambling corpse.

But no one came. No monsters, no undead, not even any dead bodies. The emptiness of the ruins was unnerving, and the strain took its toll on everyone.

After about ten minutes of heavy breathing, pounding heart, and jumping at every shadow, Erin couldn’t take it anymore. She looked at Ryoka. The tall girl was walking quietly, bare feet padding on the stone floor as she tried to look in every direction at once. Erin cleared her throat and Ryoka jumped and glared at her.

“So. It’s pretty dark.”

Rags glanced sideways at Erin. No one else said a word. Every nerve was taut with tension, every eye scanned the dark corridors and empty rooms for danger, signs of movement.

“I mean, I don’t have a problem with dark places. But this is really dark. And spooky. But the architecture’s nice. It reminds me of one of those old cathedrals, you know?”

Pisces glanced at Erin’s back quizzically.

“Cathedrals? You mean…buildings of worship? There are a few scattered around, but I’ve never…does this place remind you of one?”

“It’s not the exact same, but this reminds me of the ones in Rome and places like that. What’s the one called with the painting on the ceiling?”

Ryoka sighed loudly. She stared at Erin and gestured pointedly at Ksmvr and Toren as the two ranged ahead of the other four.

“Shouldn’t we be quiet so we don’t walk into an ambush?”

“Do we really need to? I’ve got [Dangersense]. It’s this skill that allows you to, um, sense when danger’s coming.”

Ryoka tried to keep from curling her lip.

“I know that one. Ceria says it doesn’t work for some types of danger. Traps, for example.”

“Well, are we going to be silent the entire time? I bet that’d be scarier than talking.”

“Rest assured that I remain petrified no matter how we choose to spend the journey. But Erin does have a point Miss, ah, Griffin. I can sense undead as they draw near to me.”

“Really? So where are they?”

Pisces looked hunted.

“Around. Somewhere. These ruins are saturated in death. So many undead lurking here for hundreds, possibly thousands of years…I would know if they were right behind us, though.”

“Wonderful.”

The four walked on in silence. Erin wondered whether she should keep talking, but the momentum was lost.

After five minutes Ryoka muttered a few words.

“It’s the Sistine Chapel, and it’s in the Vatican, not Rome.”

“I thought it was in Rome.”

“The Vatican is a separate state. It’s within Rome, but technically it’s a state by itself.”

“Oh. That’s cool. I didn’t know that. The Pope rules there, right?”

“Pretty much.”

Why were they talking about the Pope in the middle of an abandoned ruin? Then again, Ryoka didn’t know Erin that well. Maybe she was really religious.

Again, Pisces glanced suspiciously at Erin and Ryoka’s back. Rags was busy picking at her ear.

“What’s a Pope?”

Ryoka immediately tensed, but Erin immediately replied.

“He’s like a super [Priest]. If they existed. Which apparently, they don’t.”

Pisces eyed Erin, but he seemed to accept her convoluted explanation.

“So he’s a hypothetical [Priest]. I see.”

“Yup. We could really use him right now, too. A [Priest] could totally take care of all the undead we meet. Turn undead, holy water, all that good stuff.”

“I can do much of the same.”

“Really? Why do you need us, then?”

Pisces sniffed at Erin. He reminded Ryoka of exactly the sort of person she hated. Or at least, one of the types of people on her hate list, which, it had to be said, was quite large. He was a prissy, self-important know-it-all if she was any judge. Exactly the sort of person who talked big and never delivered…

And who was right now risking his life to save Ceria and the others. Ryoka paused and had to rethink her thoughts.

“I can deal with most forms of the undead quite easily. It’s ah, the Crypt Lords that pose a considerable threat to me.”

Erin frowned.

“What are Crypt Lords? You mean those huge fat things with bones for teeth?”

“Yes. They are above my level, so to speak. I cannot so easily destroy them as they resist my magic.”

“Crypt Lords? Is that a stronger type of the undead? Like a Lich?”

“A Lich? You mean an undead wizard thing?”

Erin stared at Ryoka, and then at Pisces.

“Please tell me one of those isn’t around. Aren’t they immortal?”

Pisces looked amused.

“Hardly. A Lich is simply the undead version of a spellcaster. They’re quite dangerous in numbers or even alone, but they’re hardly immortal. And I never saw one in the attack on Liscor, so I believe we are quite safe.”

That was another thing. Pisces had been there during the attack on Liscor, and so had Erin for that matter. Ryoka had missed the entire thing.

She had a hard time imagining these Crypt Lords, even though Erin was quite vocal with her descriptions. Moreover, she wondered how bad the attack had really been. She had a hard time imagining Pisces surviving a real attack, and Erin told her she’d defended her inn from the undead. Ryoka didn’t think Erin was lying, but—

If she’d survived it, how bad could it really have been? A few hundred undead? And apparently some monster made out of skin. Ryoka just didn’t see the horror in it if Erin had gotten out unscathed.

And if she’d survived, maybe the Horns of Hammerad had as well.

Erin was still talking about the Crypt Lords. She held up a glowing green jar, one of the ones she’d taken from the inn. There were two of them in her bag of potions.

“I’ve got just the thing for them, right here.”

It didn’t look like the other potions Ryoka had seen in the markets in human cities. She wondered what it did.

“May I see that?”

Pisces backed away from the jar as Erin held it out to Ryoka. The mage’s reaction made Ryoka accept the glowing container warily. It wasn’t particularly warm or cold to the touch, and the liquid sloshed around like most Newtonian fluids. That was the extent of Ryoka’s insight on the jar.

“What is it?”

“It’s acid.”

Ryoka nearly dropped the jar. Her skin prickled and she immediately felt a cold sweat breaking up across her body.

“What kind?”

Erin looked blank.

“Um, Acid Fly acid? I don’t know.”

Acid flies? Ryoka remembered the menu in Erin’s inn. Acid flies. She’d thought Erin was joking. But—

She sloshed the liquid gingerly in the jar and inspected it. It was glowing green, exactly like the fake slime you’d expect to see in a kid’s science kit.

“A hydrochloric acid of some kind? Will it eat through the glass?”

“I don’t think so. I don’t know what kind of acid it is. Um, it doesn’t really touch metal or stone that much. It only dissolves flesh and skin. But it does that really fast.”

Ryoka stared at the jar. She had doubt about its efficacy, but had an opportunity to see the acid in action soon enough. Ksmvr paused as he rounded a corner, and then he and Toren were running back towards the others.

“Undead. Ghouls, up ahead.”

Ryoka’s heart began to pound, but the others reacted differently than how she expected. Pisces nodded, Rags drew her sword, and Erin lifted the glowing jar with a determined look.

“Right, you get behind us.”

Ksmvr hesitated, but Toren glanced at the glass jar and immediately moved behind Erin. The skeleton’s sword was drawn and Ryoka was mesmerized by his blue eyes. She tried to concentrate. They were coming.

“I can handle five. How many were there?”

“Eight. Two were wounded.”

“I’ve got one.”

Erin lifted her acid jar as Ksmvr took a position flanking her. Pisces pushed back the sleeves on his robes and narrowed his eyes. Now Ryoka could heard growling and the dull thumping of flesh on stone. She was ready for this. She had learned to fight as a child. She could do this. She could—

The first Ghoul bounded around the corner on all fours, so quickly Ryoka was transfixed. By the time she had recovered, it had already been joined by six more bodies, Drakes and Gnolls, all dashing across the ground.

The undead weren’t supposed to run. But these things were sprinting. Ryoka was shaking. Eight? Eight was too many. She’d have to fight two at once. She glanced at Pisces. He was raising his hand and Erin was lifting the jar of acid. Too slow. They’d never.

“Decease.”

Pisces crooked his finger, and Ryoka heard a crack. One of the Ghouls in the front tumbled down, and she saw its spine twisting around under his rotted flesh. He stopped moving, tripping up the others.

The mage moved his finger and pointed at a second Ghoul. And the third. They fell down each time, spines breaking with horrible grinding sounds.

Another Ghoul leapt forwards. Ryoka nearly jumped at it, but Erin threw her jar. The glass stuck the Ghoul mid-jump and he crashed into the ground. Smoke began steaming up from his flesh as the once-Drake rolled around, clawing at his body.

Now the Ghouls were a few feet away. Pisces raised his other hand and pointed. Two Ghouls collapsed, and the last two howled as they ran at Erin.

This was it. Ryoka’s legs tried to move, but she was too slow, for once. Next to her, Toren leapt towards the first Ghouls and Ksmvr caught the second with both swords and daggers.

It was a blur. Ryoka saw Toren stabbing at the Ghoul and then grappling on the ground with it. Ksmvr was slicing apart his foe as Erin held a frying pan at the ready, shouting something. The Runner stared as Toren and the Ghoul rolled around on the floor. She couldn’t help them.

Suddenly Rags darted in front of Ryoka. The Goblin darted forwards and stabbed. The Ghoul stiffened, and Ryoka saw that Rags had stabbed the dead human in the back of the head. Toren rolled away from the now completely dead Ghoul and grabbed his sword before he got to his feet.

The skirmish was over. They had won.

And Ryoka—

She hadn’t done a thing.



—-



Erin noticed Ryoka staring at one of the Ghouls after the excitement had ended. The Runner girl was pale, but she was looking at the Ghoul hit with the acid. Erin was slightly regretting throwing that jar, now. She only had one left. Toren had been collecting acid from the traps, but pickings had been slim and she’d used up her entire supply fighting Skinner.

“Don’t worry. That one’s dead. And the others won’t be getting up any time soon.”

They had better not. The ones Pisces had killed by snapping their spines weren’t moving, and the other two were in pieces thanks to Rags, Ksmvr, and Toren. As for the one Erin had hit—

It was a puddle. A glowing, green puddle with half-dissolved parts slowly melting away. It was actually quite a hazard, given that the others would have to walk around the spreading stain.

But Ryoka seemed only half-interested in the dead Ghoul. She was staring at the dissolving body and frowning.

“What is it?”

Ryoka glanced at Erin and pointed at the acid.

“That makes no sense. Acid doesn’t dissolve things that quickly. If it were that strong, it would have eaten through the glass jar in seconds.”

“Weird, huh? But it makes for a good weapon, don’t you think? I’ve been selling it to the Goblins and making good money, too!”

Ryoka stared at Erin.

“You’ve been selling that to Goblins?”

“Um—”

“But how does it not destroy those jars? Why does this acid only target flesh?”

“Magic?”

Ryoka’s face told Erin quite clearly what she thought of that idea.

“Magic should still make sense. This doesn’t.”

“It’s how they eat.”

Ryoka turned. Pisces was mopping at his forehead. He was sweating. From the effort of casting those spells? He nodded at the nearly dissolved Ghoul and the now-sludgy pool of green.

“The ah, Acid Flies use their acid to render dead flesh into a syrup-like substance as you see before you. They then collect as much of it as possible for nourishment, for themselves and the females.”

“The females?”

“Yes. All of the acid-bearing flies are male. They supply the females with nourishment and scavenge for dead bodies. It was quite ingenious of Miss Solstice to harvest their liquid, although you can see the dangers clearly enough.”

Ryoka stared at the pool of acid. It was easier to stare at the unidentifiable green goop instead of the dead bodies of the Ghouls. She felt queasy, but tried to force it down. They’d won. The Ghouls had been easily dispatched. Almost too easily. But then, Ryoka hadn’t done much. She hadn’t done anything, really.

But next time she’d fight. Once things were serious, she’d play her part.

She was sure of that.



—-



The group travelled on for twenty more minutes before they were attacked. Pisces was just explaining how his patented spine-snapping spell was a product of a more advanced spell of [Necromancers] that he’d repurposed when he looked up and shouted a warning.

Fifteen undead, a mix of zombies and skeletons, surged out of an open doorway and ran towards the others. Again, Ryoka nearly froze as she saw their rotting frames and the burning lights in the eyes of the skeletons.

Pisces cut down several undead, but this time there were too many. Erin delved into her pack and threw something—a rock. Ryoka expected it to miss or not do any damage, but the stone cracked into the head of one of the skeletons, shattering part of the bone and sending the skeleton spinning to the floor.

And then they were on top of the group, clawing, biting, trying to kill Ryoka.

The girl saw Ksmvr lashing out lightning-fast with his swords and Toren charging into the center of the group before a zombie lurched at her. She raised her fists as the mostly-rotted woman approached, rotted teeth gaping as she grabbed at Ryoka’s arm.

Kick it. All of Ryoka’s instincts told her to kick, and she did. Clumsily.

It was no devastating roundhouse kick that hit the rotted woman in the stomach, but a pushing kick, meant to keep the woman away. But even that failed, because when Ryoka’s bare foot struck the woman in the stomach, it tore and caught in the rotted flesh of the woman’s intestines.

The feeling was horrible. Slimy, squishy, and lukewarm. It threw Ryoka off balance, and the undead woman seized her.

Punch her. Knock her away. Throw her to the floor. Ryoka had a thousand options, and she took not one of them. She stared into one ruined eye and felt the putrid breath of the zombie woman on her skin. And she couldn’t fight back.

She froze up. She couldn’t help it. It was a dead body, a dead human come back to life. This was reality. It wasn’t a monster, and this wasn’t a game. This was real.

And it was trying to eat her.

The zombie opened her jaws impossibly wide and bit at Ryoka’s face. Ryoka shouted with horror and hurled her back. A bit of dead flesh fell off the woman’s face and landed on Ryoka’s cheek, near her open mouth. Ryoka flung it away, but then the zombie was over her, reaching for her. The zombie was going to kill her—

A frying pan crashed into the zombie’s face, breaking what remained of the nose with a crunch and sending it sprawling to the floor. Erin bashed the zombie to the ground and hammered it on the head as it lay prone on the floor. When she lifted the frying pan it was slightly deformed and bits of hair and skin were sticking to the side.

“Ew, ew, ew!”

The girl didn’t take long to complain, though. She whirled and bashed another skeleton down. From her position on the floor, Ryoka saw the skeleton fall and then the lights go out as Erin kicked the skull right off the rest of the body, sending it crashing down the long corridor.

The last zombie fell down, Rag’s sword in his gut and one of Ksmvr’s daggers still cutting through his throat. Erin looked around and sighed in relief. The other undead were gone.

Which left her with adrenaline still pouring through her veins and her frying pan. Erin stared at it. She’d killed three zombies and one skeleton with it. That was good, but now parts of each dead corpse were sticking to the side of the pan.

“Oh god. That’s gross.”

Erin turned green as she shook bits off of her frying pan. She took several deep breaths, trying to get the stench of rot and death out of her nose. She tried not to vomit and looked at Ryoka. The other girl was still staring at the zombie Erin had killed. Her face was white.

“Hey, are you okay? That zombie didn’t bite you or anything, did it?”

Erin held out a hand to Ryoka. The other girl stared at it, and then at her. Ryoka’s eyes travelled to Erin’s pan, and the nameless substance dripping from the side.

“Oh, right. I’ve gotta clean that off. Um. Good thing I’m not using it for cooking, huh?”

The barefoot girl stared at the frying pan, and then at Erin. She ignored the offered hand and stood up slowly. She looked around at the dead bodies, the sliced corpses, and inhaled the scent of death. She looked at Erin. Her face was deathly pale.

“Ryoka? Are you okay?”

That was when Ryoka threw up.



—-



“You know, it’s not like just anyone can go into the ruins and fight undead monsters. You’ve gotta be pretty brave to do that, let alone barefoot.”

“Right.”

“And you were trying to fight with your bare hands. That’s like—double brave, right?”

“Right.”

“And we all think you’re brave, isn’t that right?”

Erin glanced around. Ksmvr and Pisces both nodded obediently.

“Indisputably.”

“That is correct.”

“Besides, you ran through the High Passes by yourself. And you survived giant wolves and evil goats and gargoyles. You’re not a coward. You know that.”

Ryoka sat on the ground, shaking. She knew she should say something. But she couldn’t. Her throat was still too tight.

Erin was trying to comfort her. And her words were actually helping. But they didn’t take away what had happened.

“I froze up. I couldn’t fight back.”

“Hey, it happens to all of us.”

“Did it ever happen to you?”

Erin had to think about that.

“No. But it’s nothing to be ashamed of. Anyone would freeze up if a horrible zombie tried to eat their face.”

Ryoka stared up at Erin, and the innkeeper smiled encouragingly.

“Come on. We’ve got to keep going.”

“Of course.”

Ryoka was on her feet so fast Erin blinked.

“We can’t stop. We’ve got to get there in time. Let’s go.”

She started walking. Erin exchanged glances with the others and hurried after her.

Ryoka slowed to let Erin catch up, and even more so Ksmvr and Toren could move ahead again. After all, she’d proven she couldn’t do much if she got attacked.

Erin sidled up to Ryoka and kept pace as they walked further into the ruins. Ryoka could feel Erin glancing at her.

“You’re uh, that’s a pretty quick recovery, there. You feeling alright?”

“No.”

Ryoka was being honest.

“We could stop if you need more time—”

“We’ve got to get to the Horns of Hammerad. I’ll live. I’m just—I’ll be fine.”

Ryoka smiled bitterly.

“After all, it’s not like you need a coward to fight anyways.”

“Hey.”

Erin grabbed Ryoka by the shoulder.

“You’re not a coward.”

“I couldn’t fight back. I nearly got myself killed.”

“You were fighting with your bare hands—”

“I took martial arts lessons since I was eight. I’m a certified martial artist and I’ve been in fights countless times before this. I’ve seen monsters. But I couldn’t kill that zombie. Why? What’s the difference?”

Ryoka stalked on ahead. Erin thought as she hurried to catch up. After a few minutes, she offered the only answer she could think of.

“I guess it’s because you’re not a killer.”

She saw Ryoka stop in her tracks. The Asian girl stared at Erin, face shadowed in the light of the floating orb hovering next to her face.

“What?”

“It’s just a thought.”

Erin shrugged awkwardly. She couldn’t really explain it that well.

“It’s just—fighting, martial arts? All that stuff’s self-defense, right? And it’s like a sport.”

“So? It’s meant for combat.”

“But not for killing. Right?”

Ryoka hesitated.

“It’s not the first option, but if it comes to that…”

“But it’s never come to that, right? I mean, have you ever killed someone? Ever stabbed someone or broken their neck with a karate chop or anything?”

Ryoka thought back to the Goblin she’d kicked, long ago. She remembered the horrible way his neck had crunched and shuddered.

“Maybe. Once.”

“Well. I uh, I’ve killed a lot of things.”

Ryoka looked at Erin. The shorter girl looked away from her, into the darkness.

“The first thing I killed was a Goblin. A Chieftain, actually. He was huge and evil and he wanted to kill me—I burned his face off with boiling oil.”

It was as if Ryoka had taken a step that was no longer there. She stared at Erin as the other girl continued.

“I killed some other Goblins too, I think. Well, they were stabbing me so I hit them—and I killed some Shield Spiders, and then some undead. It’s not as if I’m an adventurer and go around killing things, y’know. But I had to. And the thing is, everything screams when it dies.”

She looked at Ryoka. There was a hollowness in Erin’s gaze. A cold void.

“Everything. I don’t enjoy it. I hope I never will. But I can kill things. Other monsters, or even people. Not just dead people either. If it came down to it, I could kill someone trying to kill me.”

“I…I see. But I’ve fought people too.”

“But you’ve never killed them.”

“No. No, I haven’t.”

The pieces fell into place. Ryoka got what Erin was trying to tell her.

“I guess that’s why I became a Runner. I don’t have the—”

“Stop.”

Erin pushed at Ryoka, and the other girl stumbled. Ryoka looked back at Erin, and saw the other girl was shaking her head.

“It’s a good thing. It’s a good thing you can’t kill people. Even dead people.”

“But I nearly died. If it comes to it again, I might have to fight. Or kill.”

“And if you have to, you probably will. But I think not killing things is good, don’t you?”

“…Yes.”

After seeing the look in Erin’s eyes, Ryoka had to agree.



—-



“So, you don’t have a class? That’s so weird.”

Ryoka was getting used to Erin’s wide-eyed looks of surprise. There was something inescapably innocent about Erin’s curiosity. It just drew answers out of Ryoka that she had no intention of giving. That was the problem; it was easy to talk to Erin.

And worse, Ryoka enjoyed it. After the fight with the zombies, the undead presence had vanished for a time. Ksmvr and Toren had run across individuals and small groups which they dispatched without bothering to inform the others of, which left time for talking.

And suddenly, talking was something Ryoka wanted to do more and more with Erin. She had depths. Not like an onion or a cake or parfait or something stupid like that. She had depths like a puddle you stepped into which turned out to be as deep as an ocean.

But she was still refreshingly shallow in areas like this.

“It’s a uh, it’s a choice I made. I know it seems stupid given this world—”

“Oh, what? No. No, I don’t think so. I’m not judging. You do you, and all that. I was just wondering how you did things without skills.”

Ryoka was beginning to wonder that herself. But she had a theory, and she’d come too far to abandon it just yet. Maybe…but she changed the subject to keep the conversation light.

“You’re um, good at fighting.”

“You think so?”

Ryoka knew so. She’d seen Erin fighting with her frying pan, and despite the other girl’s lack of any kind of martial training, she was wickedly dangerous. And strong. Ryoka knew that was probably because of a Skill, but it amazed her even so.

“Why are you using frying pans, though? And what’s with all the rocks?”

“It’s all part of my master plan.”

Erin grinned at Ryoka as she brandished her new frying pan. She’d abandoned the old one a while back, claiming it stank too much.

“See, I’ve got this [Bar Fighting] skill, right? It only works when I use objects I could find in a bar, or in this case, a kitchen. If I pick up a sword I don’t move nearly as well and it’s harder to hit things. So I thought a frying pan would be perfect!”

“And the rocks?”

“I’ve got [Unerring Aim] and [Lesser Strength]. I can toss those things hard enough to kill some zombies.”

“That’s…actually impressive.”

Ryoka had to admit it.

“Yeah, well, I thought if you have the skills, why not use them, y’know?”

“It’s creative. I think that’s more the point.”

“What do you mean?”

“Well, let’s assume this is a gaming world.”

Ryoka paused, and looked behind her. Pisces stared at her, and Rags yawned and looked around, clearly bored. She knew she shouldn’t be saying anything, but Pisces had heard most of their conversation. And Erin trusted him, and he’d fixed her leg. And there were others in this world anyways, so it wasn’t a big a secret as before. Maybe…

He’d probably already guessed something was up if he had half a brain, anyways. Ryoka turned back to Erin.

“Well, I’m no expert. I never played board games when I was younger.”

“Me neither. I mean, I tried D&D once or twice, but I like chess more.”

Another surprise. Where did they come from? Ryoka liked chess. Maybe she could play Erin a few games. Hopefully Erin wasn’t a sore loser.

“What I’m trying to say is that creativity always seems to be a hallmark of those kind of games. You can’t do the same thing in video games, but instead of fighting your way through a dungeon, why not collapse the foundations? Or—or if you’re fighting an angry Minotaur, why not teleport him into molten lava or something?”

“Because that’d be really mean? I get it, though. You’re saying it’s possible to mess with the system, right?”

“Or at least take advantage of certain features. Assuming you want to follow the system, that is.”

Ryoka frowned to herself but stopped when she saw Erin looking.

“So like what did you have in mind?”

“Nothing in particular. But you know a lot of things from our world. It’s possible you could incorporate that into your inn, somehow.”

“Like how?”

“I don’t know.”

Ryoka had never put her mind to it. And now, trawling through dusty corridors below the earth wasn’t a good time to think of new ideas. She suddenly looked at Pisces, struck by a thought.

“Well, how about him?”

Pisces looked startled.

“Me?”

Erin frowned.

“What about him?”

“Pisces is a [Necromancer], right? He made that skeleton.”

“Toren.”

“Exactly. But have you ever made an undead that isn’t human? Or humanoid?”

Pisces frowned at Ryoka.

“I fail to see what you’re asking. I have raised many forms of zombies, ghouls, skeletons…”

“But never anything else?”

“Such as what?”

“A zombie bear, perhaps.”

“A zombie bear?”

Erin stared at Ryoka in horror. Ryoka shrugged.

“It would be far more powerful than a human zombie, I’m certain. Or if not a bear, what about a spider? Have you ever tried reanimating things without bones? How about undead mice? Could you turn them into spies? Or—undead birds? Can they fly?”

Pisces sniffed and drew his robes around himself defensively.

“You ask these things as if it were a simple matter. Nothing is further from the case, I assure you.”

“Oh yeah?”

Erin raised one eyebrow skeptically at Pisces.

“What’s so hard about reanimating a bear? It’s got bones.”

“Ah, but the alignment is completely different. The skeletal structure of a bear throws off every spell, making specialization in such a creature far too complex to be worth the effort.”

Erin looked blank, but Ryoka thought she understood what Pisces was saying. The mage adopted a lecturing tone and his customary sneer as he explained.

“Necromancer spells aren’t simply a matter of reanimating dead matter with a bit of magical power. If it were that simple anyone could become a [Necromancer]. No, it requires an intricate knowledge of the way each body works to get spells animating dead flesh to move right, let alone restore what was lost.”

“Yeah, but can’t you just read a book on how to do it? Someone must have made legions of undead bears at some point, right?”

Pisces shrugged.

“Even if they had, where would I read such a tome? Necromancy might not be outlawed in every nation, but it is frowned upon almost universally. Even Wistram had few books on the subject, and what spells I did uncover were standardized incantations for humanoids only.”

“Oh, so no one likes being a necromancer? That’s sad.”

Pisces sniffed.

“Yes, well, it is a rare form of magic. There were no teachers at Wistram I could study under. I had hoped to find one accomplished practitioner, but he had long departed and his findings were equally non-existent. And the only other authorities on the subjects tend to be crazed madmen or cults who practice inferior quality mass-summoning…”

He realized he was losing his audience. Pisces sighed.

“Suffice it to say, proper reanimation requires several factors. Necromancers use dead bodies because bones are ideal vessels for storing magical energy and spell bindings, whereas mere chitin decays too rapidly to sustain a long-form spell.”

Erin and Rags looked blank.

“What?”

Ryoka translated.

“He’s saying that he needs bones to properly animate a corpse. Spiders and other creatures without bones wouldn’t last very long since there’s nowhere to anchor the spell.”

“Oh.”

Pisces lost a bit of his swagger as he stared at Ryoka.

“That was…quite well said. I see you have some knowledge of the transmundane yourself Miss Griffin.”

“I’m no mage. But I understand bullshit quite well.”

Erin laughed as Pisces turned red.



—-



“So…you’re a Runner, huh?”

Ryoka nodded. She and Erin were alone again. Pisces had retreated with Rags to the rear, and they were still talking. It felt good to talk, and besides, the undead had been amazingly scarce. Suspiciously so.

“What did you do back home? I mean, did you have a job or anything?”

“I, uh, didn’t need to. My parents were pretty rich. I was going to be a Freshman in college when I disappeared.”

“Oh, really? I thought you would have already been a student. I mean, I’m twenty, but I took a gap year because I wanted to play chess and earn money for tuition. What about you?”

Ryoka cleared her throat awkwardly.

“I uh, took a gap year as well.”

Several, in point of fact.

“I suppose I just needed a break from High School.”

“That’s cool. I totally get that.”

“And you’re…an [Innkeeper]. How did that happen?”

Erin shrugged.

“I don’t know. I just wanted to find a place to be safe, you know? And I found the inn and it was really dusty.”

“Dusty?”

“Yeah, really dusty. So I tidied it up a bit and by the time I woke up I was an [Innkeeper].”

“Huh.”

“What about you? Why’d you decide not to get a class? I imagine you would have gotten one, what with running around all the time and all.”

“Yeah. I had the opportunity, but I refused. I didn’t think it was a good idea.”

Erin looked at Ryoka curiously.

“Why not?”

The other girl shrugged.

“This system – leveling, and gaining Skills seems too much like a game.”

“Yeah, it does. But why not play the game? I mean, without my class I would have died several times over. So what’s wrong with playing?”

“If we’re in a game, then there are rules. And someone who made the game. The question is: who? And what’s the way to win?”

“Not die, I guess.”

“Maybe.”

They found a long passage that seemed to slope downwards forever. Ryoka stared into the darkness and looked at Ksmvr.

“Is this the way down to the second floor?”

“It appears so.”

“That’s where all the adventurers never came back from, right?”

Erin shuddered as she stared down into the pitch blackness.

“And where that thing came from.”

Ryoka had never seen the thing Erin and the others spoke of, but she got the vibe from the way the others shifted. But still.

She looked at Pisces.

“You’re sure the message said to go down there?”

He nodded.

“I was told they were hiding on the second floor. More than that I can’t say. I’ve cast the same spell to ask for more details, but Ceria must be out of mana. Or…”

He didn’t say the rest. Ryoka nodded.

“We’ve got to go down there.”

Erin nodded, but she still peered into the darkness uncertainly.

“What if there’s a second one?”

“We run.”

“Oh. Good plan.”

It was probably the only plan that would work, too. Erin had no desire to fight that skin worm a second time, and without an army of Antinium to back her up, she wasn’t going to try.

Although now that Erin thought about it, Ryoka was definitely the fastest out of all of them. It was probably a good plan for her, but Erin really hoped it wouldn’t come to that. She’d never liked gym class.

They descended into the darkness, one by one. And found….

Nothing.



—-



Nothing. Not a zombie, not a skeleton, and not even a severed Ghoul hand. The group of six walked through the empty second floor of the Ruins, alert for any movement and finding none.

They came to an empty chamber and saw where the Horns of Hammerad and other adventurers had stopped for a rest. Erin looked around at the few dead bodies that hadn’t gotten back up and sighed sadly when she found Hunt lying still in a corner.

“Poor guy. He was just lying here with the others. I guess he must have been wounded or something.”

Ryoka stared at Hunt. She thought she recognized him, but his face was badly decayed. She shook her head.

“Whatever got these adventurers must have gone through quick if they couldn’t move their wounded.”

“No.”

As Ryoka looked at her, Erin explained.

“It was the monster. The skin monster. He—projected fear. So much that you couldn’t even move when he looked at you. Even if the adventurers were ready, I don’t think they could have countered that.”

Ryoka’s stomach twisted as she looked at the dead adventurers, butchered where they lay.

“But this is only a few of them. Where are the rest?”

They found out soon enough.



—-



“Oh god.”

Erin stared down the corridor where Skinner had first appeared and wondered if she was going to throw up this time. It was a horrible sight. Ryoka had thrown up again, and even Rags and Pisces weren’t looking too happy.

The place where the Horns of Hammerad had fought their last and the open doors where Skinner had first emerged was still a scene of blood and death. Dried blood and rotted flesh, but carnage it remained. Erin walked down the corridor, trying to skirt the worst of the bloodbath.

The bodies stank of rot. Erin felt her stomach heaving even from this far away, and she was only glad that they were too far down for insects to have begun eating the bodies. Or rather, what remained of the bodies.

Skinner had passed down this corridor, and he had not left much in the way of identifiable features or even features for that matter.

Ksmvr beckoned Erin at the end of the corridor. He and Toren were unmoved by the death and he pointed to a set of huge, double doors at the far end of the corridor. The blood and guts were particularly bad over there.

“This must be where it came from. Look at those doors.”

Erin looked. They were massive stone doors that had been opened wide to let someone, or something out. She could tell that was where the skin creature had come from. Not just because of all the carnage, but because of the doors themselves. They had carved rune-things decorating the fronts, and more than that, they looked like the door to the final boss’s room.

Ryoka stopped heaving long enough to move closer to the doors. She stared down at a bent and broken piece of metal. Sharp teeth stared up at her around bits of white skin.

“Looks like the remains of some kind of trap. Didn’t work if that’s what it was.”

Erin stared at the ground. It was just…bones and muscle and organs. No skin, no way of knowing who had been here. She remembered all the adventurers who’d been in her inn that night. Some of them could be here. She could be staring at them, and she’d never know.

Her heart hurt. But then Erin saw something glinting in the light from the mage’s sphere. She bent to pick it up.

“Oh wow. A crossbow!”

Rags looked around as Erin dragged the heavy, black thing out from where it lay. It was one of the few objects not drenched in gore. She lifted it, marveling at the weight and sleekness of it, and then her face fell.

“Broken.”

Ryoka walked over to look at the crossbow. It had been a magnificent weapon, once. But something had shattered the wooden base and it was so much string and metal, now.

“Too bad. That thing might have been useful. I could have used it.”

“Yeah, but it’s no good now.”

The Goblin’s eyes followed the mangled weapon as Erin tossed it back down on the ground. She darted over as Erin and Ryoka inspected the vault from where Skinner had come from.

“Now this is a treasure room. Isn’t it?”

“It looks like it.”

It was hard for either girl to be certain. On one hand, the room Skinner had come from looked like it fit the bill. It was large, cavernous, and filled with stone racks holding objects and crates. But the problem was that none of the things in the room looked particularly important.

“What’s this?”

Erin pointed to an urn. It was nice to look at, carved deeply and enameled with some pretty green stone that sparkled in the light. Ryoka peered at it and shrugged.

“Some kind of vase. Possibly ceremonial.”

“And this?”

“An amulet.”

“It’s made of stone!”

“Well, it’s probably valuable culturally.”

“But not, you know, magically?”

“…Probably not.”

Pisces looked up distractedly as he pawed through rows of goods on the stone shelves. He glared at Ryoka and Erin as if this were somehow their fault.

“None of this stuff is magical! It’s all—mundane! This isn’t a treasury. It’s a storeroom of antiquities and keepsakes!”

“Really? But this looks like a valuable spot. Where’d all the important stuff go?”

The mage sucked in his cheeks angrily.

“I don’t know. But numerous magical artifacts were here, I can tell you that! I can sense their auras, but they’re gone.”

“Darn.”

Erin sighed. But this wasn’t why they’d come here, was it?

“Well, the Horns of Hammerad aren’t here. Or if they are…”

Ryoka shook her head.

“They’re not here. I’m sure of it. Pisces, that spell you got. Did it say…?”

He made a face.

“No. It was very faint. It just said ‘Ruins. Second floor. Inside. I don’t think Ceria had enough mana for any more than that.”

“Damn.”

Erin turned to the others. Toren had found himself a new sword, and Rags was busy lugging the broken black crossbow around. It was nearly as large as she was and Erin was sure she’d never get it back to the surface. Pisces stomped out of the treasure vault and Ksmvr waited patiently as he watched back the way they’d come. Erin looked at Ryoka.

“Where to? The other direction?”

Ryoka nodded.

“It’s the only place they could be. Let’s hurry.”



—-



The giant room full of tombs was the last place they came to. Ryoka’s feet were hurting from the cold tiles, and she had layers of…death coating the bottom of them. She didn’t want to think about that.

Her feet were hurting anyways from all the searching. They’d been to every room, checked everywhere for signs of life. But they’d found nothing. And this, the last room in the Ruins was no more promising than the rest.

After a quick run through the cavernous room, Ryoka could see there was no one hiding in the room. The stone coffins were the only things in the room, and most of them had been opened to let their occupants out.

She jogged back to where Erin and the others were waiting and shook her head.

“Nothing.”

Erin’s face fell.

“You’re sure?”

“They’d have to be the size of that Goblin to hide in here, and they would have heard me moving around. They’re…no